Plant-based meats are coming soon to a dinner table near you, but do they deserve a spot on your plate? If you tried a vegetable burger years ago and dismissed it as rubbery and flavorless, it’s a good time to give meatless meat another chance. Newer varieties imitate the look, flavor, and texture of meat. Analysts don’t expect the meat-free movement to slow anytime soon; a 2021 report predicts the market will skyrocket to $74 billion by 2030—a 957 percent surge.

Plant-based meats are no longer just for vegetarians. Companies such as Impossible Foods and Beyond Meat—the current superstars of the alternative protein sector—are pursuing consumers who enjoy meat but want to reduce their meat consumption for animal rights, health, or environmental reasons. So far, it’s a winning strategy: More than nine out of ten consumers who buy Beyond Burger and Impossible Foods products also eat meat.

Many vegetarians don’t actually care for food that resembles meat. When reporter Joan Solsman, a longtime vegetarian, tried a dish from Impossible Foods, she felt so sick that she couldn’t finish it. “Maybe the best sign that Impossible Foods has cracked the code to realistic fake meat is that I couldn’t stand to take another bite,” she wrote.

Meatless meats are generally a healthier choice than beef because they are cholesterol-free, plus they’re a good source of vitamins, minerals, protein, and fiber.

If meatless meat can help you stick to a plant-based diet, that in itself can lead to better health. Not only has red meat been linked to cancer, but studies show that people who ditch meat have lower blood pressure, lower average blood sugar, and lower cholesterol levels.

However, just because it’s plant-based doesn’t mean it’s health food. Most imitation meats are highly processed and contain high amounts of sodium (钠) compared to traditional beef.

These new generations of alternate meat get all the attention, but don’t forget about whole grains and vegetables. Beans are an especially excellent protein substitute. They’re nutritious, inexpensive, and far more sustainable than any of the processed meatless substitutes on the market today.
