New York’s Eleven Madison Park has become the first vegan (素食主义的) restaurant to be awarded three Michelin stars.

The fine dining establishment received its first three-star Michelin rating in 2011 when the menu was famed for its fancy animal-based dishes.

However, last year, the restaurant’s co-owner and famous chef, Daniel Humm, made the bold decision to remove meat from the menu, citing our unsustainable food system. While cow milk is still served for tea and coffee, the menu is almost 100 percent vegan.

At the time, Humm acknowledged the move was risky, admitting that “it wasn’t clear if guests would come”, but called the gamble “a risk worth taking.”

“In view of the climate crisis, I didn’t want to open the same restaurant,” Humm told the Financial Times in an interview. “If we can show the possibilities of eating plant-based food in this setting, it can open a lot of doors” for others to follow.

Now, this impressive new accomplishment validates Eleven Madison Park’s decision to take meat off the menu and embrace plant-based foods, with Michelin’s 2022 New York guide branding it ‘a bold vision of luxury dining’.

“We took the jump to transform Eleven Madison Park into a plant-based fine dining restaurant knowing in our hearts this is what we believed in,” stated Humm on Instagram. “Last night, we were honored to be awarded three Michelin stars for the 11th year in a row. I am so grateful to the team members who contributed through its nearly 25-year history. We are also grateful to our guests and partners who believed in our vision and encouraged us to push harder.”

Three Michelin stars is the highest award, given to chefs who are at the peak of their profession. “Their cooking is elevated to an art form and some of their dishes are destined to become classics,” reads Michelin’s website, in a clear nod to plant-based foods’ growing significance in the culinary (烹饪的) world.

“I think luxury companies have a real role to play and a responsibility,” says Humm. “The more creative we are, the more beautiful and delicious our future will be.”
