Disgust is a universal human emotion. One type of disgust is called physical disgust, which protects us from eating or touching things that could be dangerous for us, such as raw meat or insects. Children experience physical disgust from a very early age, but do not achieve an understanding of the concept until they are around four years old.

Some researchers maintain that there is another type of disgust, called moral disgust, that protects us from engaging in activities that can be perceived as morally wrong. Examples of things that cause moral disgust are stealing, lying or cheating.

However, not all academics think that moral disgust really exists. Some say that when we refer to disgust in relation to moral issues, we are using disgust as a metaphor (隐喻), and what we are feeling is in reality anger.

If moral disgust appears quite late in development, it makes sense to think that there is actually a social component to it. Children learn about emotions in many different ways. Of special relevance are parent-child conversations about emotions. Indeed, children whose parents talk about emotions often have a better emotional understanding than children whose parents do not discuss emotions often.

However, there are no studies that have examined how parents and children talk about disgust. This is what we set out to examine in our study.

We asked 68 English-speaking mothers and their four-, six-, or eight-year-old children to discuss some stories about moral and physical disgust. Our preliminary findings show mothers and children do talk about disgust, but mainly about physical disgust and not so much about moral disgust.

When we asked mothers and children to discuss moral issues, such as whether it is OK to play with a child who has stolen someone else’s snack, they linked this type of moral wrongdoing with the emotion of anger and not disgust.

Does this mean that moral disgust does not exist? Some researchers suggest moral disgust exists in adults. Our findings suggest that moral disgust is either understood at a later age or only used metaphorically, if at all, in children as old as eight years.
