                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8.net



                      TEST FOR ENGLISH MAJORS 2017

                             微信公号 TEM8APP @言回老师

                                        GRADE EIGHT

                                                                      TIME LIMIT: 150 MIN

PART I LISTENING COMPREHENSION [25 MIN]

SECTION A MINI-LECTURE

In this section, you will hear a mini-lecture. You will hear the lecture ONCE ONLY. While listening,
please complete the gap-fulling task on ANSWER SHEET ONE and write NO MORE THAN
THREE WORDS for each gap. Make sure the word(s) you fill in is (are) both grammatically and
semantically acceptable. You may use the blank sheet for note taking.
You have THIRTY seconds to preview the gap-filling task.
Now listen to the mini-lecture. When it is over, you will be given THREE minutes to check your work.

                                     The Modes of Language

     Three modes of language
     ⚫ Speech
     ⚫ Writing
     ⚫ (1) ______                                                               (1)

     Speech and writing
     ⚫ speech is considered (2) ____ because                                    (2)
         --all languages are spoken
         --children acquire spoken language first
         --(3) _____ requires reading and writing2                              (3)

     ⚫    speech and writing have (4) _____ roles                               (4)
          --legal contracts are written for
             -- providing permanent records
             -- (5) ____ disputes over oral contracts                           (5)

     ⚫    speech is more appropriate in (6) ______                              (6)
          --face-to-face casual conversations
          --business transactions in stores
          --discussion in a classroom

     ⚫    (7) ____ of speech and writing                                        (7)
          --immediate clarification in speech
                                                1 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


          --(8) visible ____ in conversation                                   (8)
          --sense of (9) ___ in writing                                        (9)
          --use of intonation to express (10) ____                             (10)
          --writing seen to be more (11) _____                                 (11)
          --lack of (12) ____ in on-line written “chat”                        (12)
     ⚫    (13) ____ between speech and writing                                 (13)
          --linguistic markers of interactivity vary with (14) ____            (14)
          --how language is structured depends more on (15) _____              (15)

     Conclusion
     As two different modes of language, speech and writing have their own characteristics.



SECTION B INTERVIEW

In this section, you will hear ONE interview. The interview will be divided into TWO parts. At the
end of each part, five questions will be asked about what was said. Both the interview and the
questions will be spoken ONCE ONLY. After each question, there will be a ten-second pause. During
the pause, you should read the four choices of A, B, C and D, and mark the best answer to each
question on ANWER SHEET TWO.
     You have THIRTY seconds to preview the questions.
     Now listen to Part One of the interview.

1． A. Comprehensive.          B. Disheartening.           C. Encouraging.      D. Optimistic.

2.   A. 200.                  B. 70.                      C. 10.               D. 500.

3.   A. Lack of international funding.
     B. Inadequate training of medical personnel.
     C. Infectiveness of treatment efforts.
     D. Insufficient operational efforts on the ground.

4.   A. They can start educating programs for local people.
     B. They can open up more treatment units.
     C. They can provide proper treatment to patients.
     D. They can become more professional.

5.   A. Provision of medical facilities.
     B. Assessment from international agencies.
     C. Ebola outpacing operational efforts.
     D. Effective treatment of Ebola.

Now listen to Part Two of the interview.

6.   A. Interpreting the changes from different sources.
                                                2 / 14
                       英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


     B. Analyzing changes from the Internet for customers.
     C. Using media information to inspire new ideas.
     D. Creating things from changes in behavior, media, etc.

7.   A. Knowing previous success stories.
     B. Being brave and writing to take a risk.
     C. Being sensitive to business data.
     D. Being aware of what is interesting.

8.   A. Having people take a risk.
     B. Aiming at a consumer level.
     C. Using messages to do things.
     D. Focusing on data-based ideas.

9.   A. Looking for opportunities.
     B. Considering a starting point.
     C. Establishing the focal point.
     D. Examining future carefully.

10. A. A media agency.
    B. An Internet company.
    C. A venture capital firm.
    D. A behavioral study center.

PART II READING COMPREHENSION [45 MIN] 30%

SECTION A MULTIPLE-CHOICE QUESTIONS

In this section there are several passages followed by fourteen multiple-choice questions. For each
question, there are four suggested answers marked A, B, C and D. Choose the one that you think is
the best answer and mark your answers on ANSWER SHEET TWO.

Passage One


     (1) It’s 7pm on a balmy Saturday night in June, and I have just ordered my first beer in I
Cervejaria, a restaurant in Zambujeira do Mar, one of the prettiest villages on Portugal’s south-west
coast. The place is empty, but this doesn’t surprise me at all. I have spent two weeks in this area,
driving along empty roads, playing with my son on empty beaches, and staying in B&Bs where we
are the only guests.
     (2) No doubt the restaurant, run by two brothers for the past 28 years, is buzzing in July and
August, when Portuguese holidaymakers descend on the Alentejo coast. But for the other 10 months
of the year, the trickle of diners who come to feast on fantastically fresh seafood reflects the general
pace of life in the Alentejo: sleepy, bordering on comatose.

                                                  3 / 14
                      英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


     (3) One of the poorest, least-developed, least-populated regions in western Europe, the
Alentejo has been dubbed both the Provence and the Tuscany of Portugal. Neither is accurate. It’s
scenery is not as pretty and, apart from in the capital Evora, its food isn’t as sophisticated. The
charms of this land of wheatfields, cork oak forests, wildflower meadows and tiny white-washed
villages, are more subtle than in France or Italy’s poster regions.
     (4) To travel here is to step back in time 40 or 50 years. Life rolls along at a treacly pace; there’s
an unnerving stillness to the landscape. But that stillness ends abruptly at the Atlantic Ocean, where
there is drama in spades. Protected by the South West Alentejo and Costa Vicentina national park,
the 100km of coastline from Porto Covo in the Alentejo to Burgau in the Algarve is the most
stunning in Europe. And yet few people seem to know about it. Walkers come to admire the views
from the Fisherman’s Way, surfers to ride the best waves in Europe, but day after day we had
spectacular beaches to ourselves.
     (5) The lack of awareness is partly a matter of accessibility (these beaches are a good two hours’
drive from either Faro or Lisbon airports) and partly to do with a lack of beachside accommodation.
There are some gorgeous, independent guesthouses in this area (see below), but they are hidden in
valleys or at the end of dirt tracks.
     (6) Our base was Herdade da Nespereira, a beautiful 600-acre estate of uncultivated land
covered in rock-rose, eucalyptus and wild flowers 13km inland from Zambujeira. Our one-bedroom
home, Azenha, was once home to the miller who tended the now-restored watermill next to it. A
kilometre away from the main house, pool and restaurant, it is gloriously isolated. If Julian Assange
ever leaves the Ecuadorian embassy in London, I suggest he hotfoots it to an Alentejo hideaway.
He’d be safe for months.
     (7) Stepping out of the house in the morning to greet our neighbours – wild horses on one side,
donkeys on the other – with nothing but birdsong filling the air, I felt a sense of adventure you
normally only get with wild camping.
     (8)“When people first arrive, they feel a little anxious wondering what they are going to do
the whole time,” Sarah Gredley, the English owner of Nespereira, told me. “But it doesn’t usually
take them long to realise that the whole point of being here is to slow down, to enjoy nature.”
     (9) We followed her advice, walking down to the stream in search of terrapins and otters, or
through clusters of cork oak trees, their branches hairy with lichen like the ancient trees of a fairytale
forest. On some days, we tramped uphill to the windmill, now a romantic house for two, for
panoramic views across the estate and beyond.
     (10) When we ventured out, we were always drawn back to the coast – the gentle sands and
shallow bay of Farol beach close to Vila Nova de Milfontes, the rock pools of Almograve or the
cove at Carvalhal. At the end of the day, we would head, sandy-footed, to the nearest restaurant,
knowing that at every one there would be a cabinet full of fresh seafood to choose from – bass,
bream, salmon, lobster, prawns, crabs, goose barnacles, clams … We never ate the same thing twice.
     (11) A kilometre or so from I Cervejaria, on Zambujeira’s idyllic natural harbour is O Sacas,
originally built to feed the fishermen but now popular with everyone. After scarfing platefuls of
                                                  4 / 14
                      英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


seafood on the terrace, we wandered down to the harbour where two fishermen, kitted out in wetsuits,
were setting out by boat across the clear turquoise water to collect goose barnacles. Other than them,
the place was deserted – just another empty beauty spot where I wondered for the hundredth time
that week how this pristine stretch of coast has remained so undiscovered.


11. The first part of Para. 4 refers to the fact that ______.
A.   life there is quiet and slow
B.   the place is little known
C.   the place is least populated
D.   there are stunning views


12. “The lack of awareness” in Para. 5 refers to ____.
A.   different holidaying preferences
B.   difficulty of finding accommodation
C.   little knowledge of the beauty of the beach
D.   long distance from the airports


13. The author uses “gloriously” in Para. 6 to _____.
A.   describe the scenery outside the house
B.   show appreciation of the surroundings
C.   contrast greenery with isolation
D.   praise the region’s unique feature


14. The sentence “We never ate the same thing twice” in Para. 10 reflects the ___ of the seafood
there.
A.   freshness
B.   delicacy
C.   tastes
D.   variety


15. Which of the following themes is repeats in both Pars. 1 and 11?
A.   Publicity
B.   Landscape
C.   Seafood
D.   Accommodation


Passage Two


         (1) I can still remember the faces when I suggested a method of dealing with what most
                                                  5 / 14
                      英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


teachers of English considered one of their pet horrors, extended reading. The room was full of tired
teachers, and many were quite cynical about the offer to work together to create a new and dynamic
approach to the place of stories in the classroom.
     (2) They had seen promises come and go and mere words weren't going to convince them,
which was a shame as it was mere words that we were principally dealing with. Most teachers were
unimpressed by the extended reading challenge from the Ministry, and their lack of enthusiasm for
the rather dry list of suggested tales was passed on to their students and everyone was pleased when
that part of the syllabus was over. It was simply a box ticking exercise. We needed to do something
more. We needed a very different approach.
     (3) That was ten years ago. Now we have a different approach, and it works. Here's how it
happened (or, like most good stories, here are the main parts. You have to fill in some of yourself
employing that underused classroom device, the imagination.) We - that is the British Council in
Portugal and the Portuguese teachers' association APPI - started with three main precepts:
     (4) First, it is important to realise that all of us are storytellers, tellers of tales. We all have our
own narratives - the real stories such as what happened to us this morning or last night, and the ones
we have been told by others and we haven't experienced personally. We could say that our entire
lives are constructed as narratives. As a result, we all understand and instinctively feel narrative
structure. Binary opposites - for example, the tension created between good and bad together with
the resolution of that tension through the intervention of time, resourcefulness and virtue - is a
concept understood by even the youngest children. Professor Kieran Egan, in his seminal book
'Teaching as Storytelling' warns us not to ignore this innate skill, for it is a remarkable tool for
learning.
     (5) We need to understand that writing and reading are two sides of the same coin: an author
has not completed the task if the book is not read: the creative circle is not complete without the
reader, who will supply their own creative input to the process. Samuel Johnson said: A writer only
begins a book. A reader finishes it. In teaching terms, we often forget that reading itself can be a
creative process, just as writing is, and we too often relegate it to a means of data collection. We
frequently forget to make that distinction when presenting narratives or poetry, and often ask
comprehension questions which relate to factual information - who said what and when, rather than
speculating on 'why', for example, or examining the context of the action.
     (6) The third part of the reasoning that we adopted relates to the need to engage the students as
readers in their own right, not as simply as language learners; learning the language is part of the
process, not the reason for reading. What they read must become theirs and have its own special and
secret life in their heads, a place where teachers can only go if invited.
     (7) We quickly found that one of the most important ways of making all the foregoing happen
was to engage the creative talents of the class before they read a word of the text. The pre-reading
activities become the most important part of the teaching process; the actual reading part can almost
be seen as the cream on the cake, and the principle aim of pre-reading activities is to get students to
want to read the text. We developed a series of activities which uses clues or fragments from the
                                                   6 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


text yet to be read, and which rely on the student's innate knowledge of narrative, so that they can
to build their own stories before they read the key text. They have enough information to generate
ideas but not so much that it becomes simply an exercise in guided writing; releasing a free
imagination is the objective.
     (8) Moving from pre-reading to reading, we may introduce textual intervention activities.
'Textual Intervention' is a term used by Rob Pope to describe the process of questioning a text not
simply as a guide to comprehension but as a way of exploring the context of the story at any one
time, and examining points at which the narrative presents choices, points of divergence, or narrative
crossroads. We don't do this for all texts, however, as the shorter ones do not seem to gain much
from this process and it simply breaks up the reading pleasure.
     (9) Follow up activities are needed, at the least, to round off the activity, to bring some sense
of closure but they also offer an opportunity to link the reading experience more directly to the
requirements of the syllabus. Indeed, the story may have been chosen in the first place because the
context supports one of the themes that teachers are required to examine as part of the syllabus - for
example, 'families', 'science and technology', 'communications', 'the environment' and all the other
familiar themes. There are very few stories that can't be explored without some part of the syllabus
being supported. For many teachers this is an essential requirement if they are to engage in such
extensive reading at all.
     (10) The whole process - pre-, while and post reading - could be just an hour's activity, or it
could last for more than one lesson. When we are designing the materials for exploring stories
clearly it is isn't possible for us to know how much time any teacher will have available, which is
why we construct the activities into a series of independent units which we call kits. They are called
kits because we expect teachers to build their own lessons out of the materials we provide, which
implies that large amounts may be discarded. What we do ask, though, is that the pre-reading
activities be included, if nothing else. That is essential for the process to engage the student as a
creative reader.
     (11) One of the purposes of encouraging a creative reading approach in the language classroom
is to do with the dynamics we perceive in the classroom. Strategic theorists tell us of the social
trinity, whereby three elements are required to achieve a dynamic in any social situation. In the
language classroom these might be seen as consisting of the student, the teacher and the language.
Certainly from the perspective of the student - and usually from the perspective of the teacher - the
relationship is an unequal one, with the language being perceived as placed closer to the teacher
than the student. This will result in less dynamic between language and student than between
language and teacher. However, if we replace 'language' with narrative and especially if that is
approached as a creative process that draws the student in so that they feel they 'own' the relationship
with the text, then this will shift the dynamic in the classroom so that the student, who has now
become a reader, is much closer to the language - or narrative - than previously. This creates a much
more effective dynamic of learning. However, some teachers feel threatened by this apparent loss
of overall control and mastery. Indeed, the whole business of open ended creativity and a lack of
                                                 7 / 14
                      英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


boxes to tick for the correct answer is quite unsettling territory for some to find themselves in.


16. It can be inferred from Paras. 1 and 2 that teachers used to _____.
A. oppose strongly the teaching of extended reading
B. be confused over how to teach extended reading
C. be against adopting new methods of teaching
D. teach extended reading in a perfunctory way


17. The sentence “we all understand and instinctively feel narrative structure” in Para. 4 indicates
that ___.
A. we are good at telling stories
B. we all like telling stories
C. we are born story-tellers
D. we all like listening to stories


18. Samuel Johnson regards the relationships between a writer and a reader as _____ (Para. 5).
A. independent
B. collaborative
C. contradictory
D. reciprocal


19. In Para. 7, the author sees “pre-reading” as the most important part of reading because ___.
A. it encourages students’ imagination
B. it lays a good foundation for reading
C. it can attract students’ attention
D. it provides clues to the text to be read
20. “Textual Intervention” suggested by Rob Pope (in Para.9) is expected to fulfill all the following
functions EXCEPT ___.
A. exploring the context
B. interpreting ambiguities
C. stretching the imagination
D. examining the structure


Passage Three


     (1) Once again, seething, residual anger has burst forth in an American city. And the riots that
overlook Los Angles were a reminder of what knowledgeable observers have been saying for a
quarter-century. America will continue paying a high price in civil and ethnic unrest unless the
nation commits itself to pragmas that help the urban poor lead productive and respectable lives.
                                                8 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


     (2) Once again, a proven program is worth pondering national service.
     (3) Somewhat akin to the military training that generations of American makes received in the
armed forces, a 1990s version would prepare thousands of unemployable and undereducated young
adults for quality lives in our increasingly global and technology-driven economy. National service
opportunities would be available to any who needed it and, make no mistake, the problems are now
so structural, so intractable, that any solution will require massive federal intervention.
     (4) In his much-quoted book, “The Truly Disadvantaged,” sociologist William Julius Wilson
wrote that “only a major program of economic reform” will prevent the riot-prone urban underclass
from being permanently locked out of American economic life. Today, we simply have no choice,
the enemy within and among our separate ethnic selves is as daunting as any foreign foe.
     (5) Families who are rent apart by welfare dependency, job discrimination and intense feelings
of alienation have produced minority teenagers with very little self-discipline and little faith that
good grads and the American work ethnic will pay off. A military-lie environment for them with
practical domestic objectives could produce startling results.
     (6) Military service has been the most successful career-training program we’ve ever known,
and American children born in the years since the all-volunteer Army was instituted make up a large
proportion of this targeted group. But this opportunity may disappear forever if too many of our
military bases are summarily closed and converted or sold to the private sector. The facilities,
manpower, traditions, and capacity are already in place.
     (7) Don’t dismantle it: rechannel it.
     (8) Discipline is a cornerstone of any responsible citizen’s life. I was taught it by my father,
who was a policeman. Many of the rioters have never had any at all. As an athlete and former Army
officer, I know that discipline can be learned. More importantly, it must be learned or it doesn’t take
hold.
     (9) A precedent for this approach was the Civilian Conservation Corps that worked so well
during the Great Depression. My father enlisted in the CCC as a young man with an elementary
school education and he learned invaluable skills that served him well throughout his life. The key
was that job was waiting for him when he finished. The certainty of that first entry-level position is
essential if severely alienated young minority men and woman are keep to the faith.
     (10) We all know these are difficult time for the public sector, but here’s a chance to ad
energetic and able manpower to America’s workforce.        They could be prepared for the world work
or college- an offer similar to that made to returning GIs after Word WarⅡ. It would be a chance
for 16-to 21-year-olds to live among other cultures, religions races and in different geographical
areas. And these young people could be taught to really around common goals and friendships that
evolve out of pride in one’s squad, platoon, company, battalion-or commander.
     (11) We saw such images during the Persian Gulf War and during the NACC Final Four
basketball games. In military life and competitive sports, this camaraderie doesn’t just happen; it is
taught and learned in an atmosphere of discipline and earned mutual respect for other’s capabilities.
     (12) A nation service program would also help overcome two damaging perception held by
                                                 9 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


America’s disaffected youth: that society just doesn’t care about minority youngsters and that one’s
personal best efforts will not be reward in our discriminatory job market. Harvard professor Robert
Reich’s research has shown that urban social ill are so pervasive that the upper 20 percent of
Americans – that “fortunate fifth” as he calls them-have decided quietly to “secede” from the bottom
four-fifths in particular. We cannot accept such estrangement on a permanent basis. And what better
way to answer skeptics from any group than by certifying the technical skill of graduates from a
nation service training program?
     (13) Now, we must act decisively to forestall future urban unrest. Republicans must put aside
their aversion to funding programs aimed at certain cultural groups. Democrats must forget labels
and recognize that a geographically isolate subgroup of Americans – their children in particular-
need systematic and substantive assistance for a least another 20 years.
     (14) The ethnic taproots of minority Americans are deeply buried in a soil of faith and loyalty
to traditional values. With its emphasis on discipline, teamwork, conflict resolution, personal
responsibility and marketable skills development and that vital first job that will reconnect these
Americans to the rest of us. Let’s do it now before the fire next time.


21. According to the author, “national service” is comparable to “military training” because they
both cultivate youngsters’ _______.
A. good grades
B. self discipline
C. mutual trust
D. work ethnic


22. The author cites the example of his father in order to show _____.
A. the importance of discipline
B. the importance of education
C. the necessity of have strong faith
D. the effectiveness of the program


23. According to the author, a national service program can bring the following benefits to
America’s youngsters EXCEPT _____.
A. increase in income
B. a sense of responsibility
C. confidence and hope
D. practical work skills


24. According to the context, what does “the fire” refer to (Para. 14)?
A. Discrimination.
B. Anger.
                                               10 / 14
                      英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


C. Riots.
D. Aversion.


SECTION B SHORT-ANSWER QUESTIONS
In this section, there are seven short answer questions based on the passage in SECTION A. Answer
each question in NO MORE THAN TEN WORDS in the space provided on ANSWER SHEET
TWO.


Passage 1
25. What does Para. 2 tell us about the restaurant business on the Alentejo coast throughout the year?
26. According to Para. 5, what are the main reasons of the Alentejo’s inaccessibility?


Passage 2
27. What does “It was simply a box ticking exercise “mean in Para.2?
28. Paras. 4-6 propose three main precepts for the new approach. Please use ONE phrase to
summarize each of the three precepts.
29. What does the author suggest to shift the dynamic in the classroom (Para. 11)?


Passage 3
30. What is the purpose of the program proposed by the author (Paras. 1-3)?
31. What does the word “it” in “Don’t dismantle it: rechannel it” refer to (Para. 7)?
32. What do Robert Reich’s findings imply (Para. 12)?


PART III LANGUAGE USAGE [15 MIN] 10%

The passage contains TEN errors. Each indicated line contains a maximum of ONE error. In each
case only ONE word is involved. You should proofread the passage and correct it in the following
way.

For a wrong word,             underline the wrong word and write the correct on in the blank
For a missing word,           mark the position of the missing word with “^” sign and write the
                              correct on in the blank
For an unnecessary word,      cross the unnecessary word the slash “/” and out the word in the blank

       Proofread the given passage on ANSWER SHEET THREE as instructed.




                                               11 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


              The ability to communicate is the primary factor that
        distinguish human beings from animals. And it is the
        ability to communicate well which distinguishes one              (1) _______
        individual from another.
              The fact is that apart from the basic necessities, one
        needs to be equipped with habits for good communication
        skills, thus this is what will make one a happy and              (2) _______
        successful social being.
              In order to develop these habits, one needs to first
        acknowledge the fact that they need to improve
        communication skills from time to time. They need to take
        stock of the way how they interact and the direction in          (3) _______
        which their work and personal relations are going. The
        only constant in life is change, the more one accepts one’s      (4) _______
        strengths and works towards dealing with their
        shortcomings, specially in the area of communication (5) _______
        skills, the better will be their interactions and the more
        their social popularity.
              To dominated question that comes here is: How to (6) _______
        improve communication skills? The answer is simple. One
        can find plenty of literature on this. There are also experts,
        who conduct workshops and seminars based on
        communication skills of men and women. In fact, a large
        number of companies are bringing in trainers to regularly
        make sessions on the subject, in order to help their work        (7) _______
        force maintain better interpersonal work relations.
              Today effective communication skills have become a
        predominant factor even while recruiting employees.
        While interviewing candidates, most interviewers judge
        them on the basis of the skills they communicate with.
        They believe that some skills can be improvised on the job;
        but ability to communicate well is important, as every           (8) _______
        employee becomes the representing face of the company.
              There are trainers, who specialized in delivering          (9) ________
        custom-made programs on the subject. Through the
        sessions they not only facilitate better communication
        skills in the workplace, but also look into the problems in
        the manner of being able to convey messages effectively.         (10) _______




PART IV TRANSLATION [20 MIN] 15%
Translate the underlined part of the following text from Chinese into English. Write your translation
on ANSWER SHEET THREE.

                                                12 / 14
                         英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com




     我小时候，特别盼望过年，往往是一跨进腊月，就开始掰着指头数日子，好像春节是一
个遥远的、很难到达的目的地。对于我们这种焦急的心态，大人们总是发出深沉的感叹，好
像他们不但不喜欢过年，而且还惧怕过年。他们的态度，令当时的孩子感到失望和困惑，当
然，现在我完全能够理解了。我想，长辈们之所以对过年感慨良多，一是因为过年意味着一
笔巨大的开支，而拮据的生活预算里，往往还没有备足这笔钱，二是飞速流逝的时间对他们
构成的巨大压力。小孩子可以兴奋地喊：“过了年，我又长大了一岁！”老人则无可奈何地叹
息：“唉，又老了一岁。”过年意味着小孩子正在向自己生命过程中的辉煌时期进步，而对于
大人，则意味着自己正向衰朽的残年滑落。


PART V WRITING [45 MIN] 20%

     The following are two excerpts about job hopping. Read the two excerpts carefully and write
an article of NO LESS THAN 300 WORDS, in which you should:

     1. Summarize the main arguments in the two excerpts, and then
     2. Express your opinion towards job hopping, especially on whether job hopping would
          benefit your career development.

     Marks will be awarded for content relevance, content sufficiency, organization and language
quality. Failure to follow the above instructions may result in a loss of marks.

    Write your article on ANSWER SHEET FOUR.

Excerpt 1
                                    The Pros of Job Hopping


     Until recently, job hopping was considered career suicide. But things have changed. As job
longevity becomes a thing of the past, employers and recruiters are beginning to have a different
outlook on job hopping.
     According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average number of years that U.S. workers
have been with their current employer is 4.6. Tenure of young employees (ages 20 to 34) is only
half that (2.3 years).
     As it turns out, job hopping can be extremely advantageous for certain types of people—if they
do it for the right reasons, says Laurie Lopez, a partner and senior general manager in the IT
Contracts division at WinterWyman. “For those in technology, for example, it allows them the
opportunity to gain valuable technical knowledge in different environments and cultures. This can
be more common for those specializing in IT. In order to keep their skills fresh, it is necessary for
technologists to remain current in a highly competitive market. Job hopping is more common with
employees that are less tenured, and feel confident in their skills to be able to move on without
burning a bridge and can add value immediately in a new opportunity. With employers being more

                                               13 / 14
                      英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


open to hiring job hoppers, we expect the trend to continue.”
Excerpt 2
            Job Hopping Becomes More Difficult as Employers Seek Solid Credentials


     Amid a slowdown in the country's economic growth, the good times for job hoppers might also
be coming to an end, said Angel Lam, associate director of commerce and finance, human resources,
supply chain and operation business of Robert Walters.
     Job hoppers are those who frequently change jobs in a two-year span, according to global
recruitment consultancy Robert Walters.
     Employers started to shun the job hoppers in 2012, and the trend became more apparent in
2013 and this year.
     "About 90 percent of our clients will simply reject the candidate if they find traces indicating
job hopping in the resumes. They wouldn't even give an interview," she said.
     The usual time span for candidates to change a job should be between four to six years,
especially for middle to senior management candidates, as they have to demonstrate progress to
their employers over this period of time, according to Lam.
     Usually, the candidate will adapt to all the changes in the job in the first year, make some fine
tuning in the second year, speed up his or her progress in the third year and start to seek more stable
development in the ensuing years. Only in this way can the employee improve adaptability, gain
persistence and grasp basic skill sets required for the job, Lam said.


                                           --THE END--




                                                14 / 14
