                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8.net



                      TEST FOR ENGLISH MAJORS 2018

                             微信公号 TEM8APP @言回老师

                                       GRADE EIGHT

                                                                       TIME LIMIT: 150 MIN

PART I LISTENING COMPREHENSION [25 MIN]

SECTION A MINI-LECTURE

In this section, you will hear a mini-lecture. You will hear the lecture ONCE ONLY. While listening,
please complete the gap-fulling task on ANSWER SHEET ONE and write NO MORE THAN
THREE WORDS for each gap. Make sure the word(s) you fill in is (are) both grammatically and
semantically acceptable. You may use the blank sheet for note taking.
You have THIRTY seconds to preview the gap-filling task.
Now listen to the mini-lecture. When it is over, you will be given THREE minutes to check your work.

                                    Language and humanity

Language is powerful and it can help us do or get things as we wish.
    Language as a born trait
    ⚫ Language has evolved only in (1) ____.
    ⚫ Comparison between chimpanzees and human beings:
        -Chimpanzees
           - use of tools: once seen as a sign of (2) ___
            - inability to (3) ___
            - tendency to (4) ___
        - Human beings
            - able to improve and build on (5) ___
            - able to (6) ___ ideas
    Language and social learning
    ⚫ Problem of social learning: (7) ___
        -Cause:
           - stealing others’ idea by (8) ___
        - Solution:
           - (9) ___ developed to share ideas
    ⚫ Results
        - (10) ___ made available to every individual
        - language as social technology to enhance (11) __
   Language and the modern world
    ⚫ Existence of many different languages has led to

                                               1 / 14
                      英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


          - separation of cooperative groups
          - (12) ___
          - knowledge protection
          - slow flow of ideas and tendency toward (13) ___
     ⚫ Globalization needs (14) ___
     ⚫     (15) ____ hinder cooperation.
     Solution: one world with one language

SECTION B INTERVIEW

In this section, you will hear ONE interview. The interview will be divided into TWO parts. At the
end of each part, five questions will be asked about what was said. Both the interview and the
questions will be spoken ONCE ONLY. After each question, there will be a ten-second pause. During
the pause, you should read the four choices of A, B, C and D, and mark the best answer to each
question on ANWER SHEET TWO.
     You have THIRTY seconds to preview the questions.
     Now listen to Part One of the interview.


1． A. Announcement of results.
     B. Lack of a time schedule.
     C. Slowness in ballots counting.
     D. Direction of the electoral events.


2.   A. Other voices within Afghanistan wanted so.
     B. The date had been set previously.
     C. All the ballots had been counted.
     D. The UN advised them to do so.


3.   A. To calm the voters.
     B. To speed up the process.
     C. To stick to the election rules.
     D. To stop complaints from the loser.


4.   A. Unacceptable.
     B. Unreasonable.
     C. Insensible.
     D. Ill considered.


5.   A. Supportive.
     B. Ambivalent.
     C. Opposed.
                                              2 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


     D. Neutral.
     Now listen to Part Two of the interview.


6.   A. Ensure the government includes all parties.
     B. Discuss who is going to be the winner.
     C. Supervise the counting of votes.
     D. Seek support from important sectors.


7.   A. 36%-24%.
     B. 46%-34%.
     C. 56%-44%.
     D. 66%-54%.


8.   A. Both candidates.
     B. Electoral institutions.
     C. The United Nations.
     D. Not specified.


9.   A. It was unheard of.
     B. It was on a small scale.
     C. It was insignificant.
     D. It occurred elsewhere.


10. A. Problems in the electoral process.
     B. Formation of a new government.
     C. Premature announcement of results.
     D. Democracy in Afghanistan.


PART II READING COMPREHENSION [45 MIN] 30%

SECTION A MULTIPLE-CHOICE QUESTIONS

In this section there are several passages followed by fourteen multiple-choice questions. For each
question, there are four suggested answers marked A, B, C and D. Choose the one that you think is
the best answer and mark your answers on ANSWER SHEET TWO.

PASSAGE ONE

     (1) “Britain’s best export,” I was told by the head of the Department of Immigration in
Canberra, “is people.” Close on 100,000 people have applied for assisted passages in the first five
months of that year, and half of there are eventually expected to migrate to Australia.
                                                 3 / 14
                      英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


     (2) The Australians are delighted. They are keenly aware that without a strong flow of
immigrants into the workforce the development the Australian economy is unlikely to proceed at
the ambitious pace currently envisaged. The new mineral discoveries promise a splendid future,
and the injection of huge amounts of American and British capital should help to ensure that they
are properly exploited, but with unemployment in Australia down to less than 1.3 percent, the
government is understandably anxious to attract more skilled labor.
     (3) Australia is roughly the same size as the continental United States, but has only twelve
million inhabitants. Migration has accounted for half the population increase in the last four years,
and has contributed greatly to the country’s impressive economic development. Britain has always
been the principal source – ninety per cent of Australians are of British descent, and Britain has
provided one million migrants since the Second World War.
     (4) Australia has also given great attention to recruiting people elsewhere. Australians
decided they had an excellent potential source of applicants among the so-called “guest workers”
who have crossed their frontier to work in other parts of Europe. There were estimated to be more
than four million of them, and a large number were offered subsidized passages and guaranteed
jobs in Australia. Italy has for some years been the second biggest source of migrants, and the
Australians have also managed to attract a large number of Greeks and Germans.
     (5) One drawback with them. So far the Australians are concerned, is that integration tend to
be more difficult. Unlike the British, continental migrants have to struggle with an unfamiliar
language and new customs. Many naturally gravitate towards the Italian or Greek communities,
which have grown up in cities such as Sydney and Melbourne. There colonies have their own
newspapers, their own shops, and their own clubs. Their inhabitants are not Australians, but
Europeans.
     (6) The government’s avowed aim, however, is to maintain “a substantially homogeneous
society into which newcomers, from whatever sources, will merge themselves.” By and large,
therefore, Australia still prefers British migrants, and tends to be rather less selective in their case
than it is with others.
     (7) A far bigger cause of concern than the growth of national groups, however, is the
increasing number of migrants who return to their countries of origin. One reason is that people
nowadays tend to be more mobile, and that it is easier than in the past to save the return fare, but
economic conditions also have something to do with it. A slower rate of growth invariably
produces discontent – and if this coincided with greater prosperity in Europe, a lot of people tend
to feel that perhaps they were wrong to come here after all.
     (8) Several surveys have been conducted recently into the reason why people go home. One
noted that “flies, dirt, and outside lavatories” were on the list of complaints from British
immigrants, and added that many people also complained about “the crudity bad manners and
unfriendliness of the Australians”. Another survey gave climate conditions, homesickness, and
“the stark appearances of the Australian countryside” as the main reason for leaving.
                                                 4 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


     (9) Most British migrants miss most British migrants miss council housing, the national
health scheme, and their relatives and former neighbors. Loneliness is a big factor, especially
among housewives. The men soon make new friends at work, but wives tend to find it much
harder to get used to a different way of life. Many are housebound because of inadequate public
transport in most outlying suburbs, and regular correspondence with their old friends at home only
serves to increase their discontent. One housewife was quoted recently as saying: “I even find I
miss the people I used to hate at home.”
     (10) Rents are high, and there are long waiting lists for Housing Commission homes.
Sickness can be an expensive business and the climate can be unexpectedly rough. The gap
between Australian and British wage packets is no longer big, and people are generally expected
to work harder here than they do at home. Professional men over forty often have difficulty in
finding a decent job. Above all, perhaps, skilled immigrants often find a considerable reluctance to
accept their qualifications.
     (11) According to the journal Australian Manufacturer, the attitude of many employers and
fellow workers is anything but friendly. “We Australians,” it stated in a recent issue, “are just too
fond of painting the rosy picture of the big, warm-hearted Aussie. As a matter of fact, we are so
busy blowing our trumpets that we have not got time to be warm-hearted and considerate. Go
down “heart-break alley” among some of the migrants and find out just how expansive the Aussie
is to his immigrants.”


11. The Australians want a strong flow of immigrants because ___.
     A.   immigrants speed up economic expansion
     B.   unemployment is down to a low figure
     C.   immigrants attract foreign capital
     D.   Australia is as large as the United States

12. Australia prefers immigrants from Britain because ___.
     A.   they are selected carefully before entry
     B.   they are likely to form national groups
     C.   they easily merge into local communities
     D.   they are fond of living in small towns


13. In explaining why some migrants return to Europe the author ___.
     A.   stresses their economic motives
     B.   emphasizes the variety of their motives
     C.   stresses loneliness and homesickness
     D.   emphasizes the difficulties of men over forty

14. Which of the following words is used literally, not metaphorically?
                                                5 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


     A.    “flow” (Para.2).
     B.    “injection” (Para. 2).
     C.    “gravitate” (Para. 5).
     D.    “selective” (Para. 6).

 15. Para. 11 pictures the Australians as ___.
      A.    unsympathetic
      B.    ungenerous
      C.    undemonstrative
      D.    unreliable


PASSAGE TWO

     (1) Some of the advantages of bilingualism include better performance at tasks involving
“executive function” (which involves the brain’s ability to plan and prioritize), better defense
against dementia in old age and – the obvious—the ability to speak a second language. One
purported advantage was not mentioned, though. Many multilinguals report different personalities,
or even different worldviews, when they speak their different languages.
     (2) It’s an exciting notion, the idea that one’s very self could be broadened by the mastery of
two or more languages. In obvious ways (exposure to new friends, literature and so forth) the self
really is broadened. Yet it is different to claim—as many people do—to have a different
personality when using a different language. A former Economist colleague, for example, reported
being ruder in Hebrew than in English. So what is going on here?
     (3) Benjamin Lee Whorf, an American linguist who died in 1941, held that each language
encodes a worldview that significantly influences its speakers. Often called “Whorfianism”, this
idea has its sceptics, including The Economist, which hosted a debate on the subject in 2010. But
there are still good reasons to believe language shapes thought.
     (4) This influence is not necessarily linked to the vocabulary or grammar of a second
language. Significantly, most people are not symmetrically bilingual. Many have learned one
language at home from parents, and another later in life, usually at school. So bilinguals usually
have different strengths and weaknesses in their different languages—and they are not always best
in their first language. For example, when tested in a foreign language, people are less likely to
fall into a cognitive trap (answering a test question with an obvious-seeming but wrong answer)
than when tested in their native language. In part this is because working in a second language
slows down the thinking. No wonder people feel different when speaking them. And no wonder
they feel looser, more spontaneous, perhaps more assertive or funnier or blunter, in the language
they were reared in from childhood.
    (5) What of “crib” bilinguals, raised in two languages? Even they do not usually have

perfectly symmetrical competence in their two languages. But even for a speaker whose two
                                                 6 / 14
                       英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


languages are very nearly the same in ability, there is another big reason that person will feel
different in the two languages. This is because there is an important distinction between
bilingualism and biculturalism.
        (6) Many bilinguals are not bicultural. But some are. And of those bicultural bilinguals, we
should be little surprised that they feel different in their two languages. Experiments in
psychology have shown the power of “priming”—small unnoticed factors that can affect
behaviour in big ways. Asking people to tell a happy story, for example, will put them in a better
mood. The choice between two languages is a huge prime. Speaking Spanish rather than English,
for a bilingual and bicultural Puerto Rican in New York, might conjure feelings of family and
home. Switching to English might prime the same person to think of school and work.
        (7) So there are two very good reasons (asymmetrical ability, and priming) that make people
feel different speaking their different languages. We are still left with a third kind of argument,
though. An economist recently interviewed here at Prospero, Athanasia Chalari, said for example
that:
             Greeks are very loud and they interrupt each other very often. The reason for that is the
        Greek grammar and syntax. When Greeks talk they begin their sentences with verbs and the
        form of the verb includes a lot of information so you already know what they are talking
        about after the first word and can interrupt more easily.
   (8) Is there something intrinsic to the Greek language that encourages Greeks to interrupt?
Consider Johnson skeptical. People seem to enjoy telling tales about their languages' inherent
properties, and how they influence their speakers. A group of French intellectual worthies once
proposed, rather self-flatteringly, that French be the sole legal language of the EU, because of its
supposedly unmatchable rigor and precision. Some Germans believe that frequently putting the
verb at the end of a sentence makes the language especially logical. But language myths are not
always self-flattering: many speakers think their languages are unusually illogical or
difficult—witness the plethora of books along the lines of "Only in English do you park on a
driveway and drive on a parkway; English must be the craziest language in the world!" What such
pop-Whorfian stories share is a (natural) tendency to eroticize languages. We also see some
unsurprising overlap with national stereotypes and self-stereotypes: French, rigorous; German,
logical; English, playful. Of course.
    (9) In this case, Ms. Chalari, a scholar, at least proposed a specific and plausible line of
causation from grammar to personality: in Greek, the verb comes first, and it carries a lot of
information, hence easy interrupting. The problem is that many unrelated languages all around the
world put the verb at the beginning of sentences. Many languages all around the world are heavily
inflected, encoding lots of information in verbs. It would be a striking finding if all of these
unrelated languages had speakers more prone to interrupting each other. Welsh, for example, is
 also both verb-first and about as heavily inflected as Greek, but the Welsh are not known as pushy
conversationalists.
                                                   7 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


 16. According to the author, which of the following advantages of bilingualism is commonly
 accepted?
      A. Personality improvement.
      B. Better task performance.
      C.    Change of worldviews.
      D.    Avoidance of old-age disease.

 17. According to the passage, that language influences thought may be related to ___.
      A.    the vocabulary of a second language.
      B.    the grammar of a second language.
      C.    the improved test performance in a second language.
      D.    the slowdown of thinking in a second language.

 18. What is the author’s response to the question at the beginning of Para. 8?
      A.    It’s just one of the popular tales of national stereotypes.
      B.    Some properties inherent can make a language logical.
      C.    German and French are good examples of Whorfianism.
      D.    There is adequate evidence to support a positive answer.


 19. Which of the following statements concerning Para. 9 is correct?
      A.    Ms. Chalari’s theory about the Greek language is well grounded.
      B.    Speakers of many other language are also prose to interrupting.
      C.    Grammar is unnecessarily a condition for change in personality.
      D.    Many unrelated languages don’t have the same features as Greek.

 20. In discussing the issue, the author’s attitude is ___.
      A.    satirical
      B.    objective
      C.    critical
      D.    ambivalent

PASSAGE THREE

      (1) Once across the river and into the wholesale district, she glanced about her for some
 likely door at which to apply. As she contemplated the wide windows and imposing signs, she
 became conscious of being gazed upon and understood for what she was—a wage-seeker. She had
 never done this thing before, and lacked courage. To avoid a certain indefinable shame, she felt at
 being caught spying about for a position, she quickened her steps and assumed an air of
 indifference supposedly common to one upon an errand. In this way she passed many
 manufacturing and wholesale houses without once glancing in. At last, after several blocks of
 walking, she felt that this would not do, and began to look about again, though without relaxing
 her pace. A little way on she saw a great door which, for some reason, attracted her attention. It

                                                  8 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


 was ornamented by a small brass sign, and seemed to be the entrance to a vast hive of six or seven
 floors. "Perhaps," she thought, "they may want someone," and crossed over to enter. When she
 came within a score of feet of the desired goal, she saw through the window a young man in a
 grey checked suit. That he had anything to do with the concern, she could not tell, but because he
 happened to be looking in her direction her weakening heart misgave her and she hurried by, too
 overcome with shame to enter. Over the way stood a great six- story structure, labelled Storm and
 King, which she viewed with rising hope. It was a wholesale dry goods concern and employed
 women. She could see them moving about now and then upon the upper floors. This place she
decided to enter, no matter what. She crossed over and walked directly toward the entrance. As she

did so, two men came out and paused in the door. A telegraph messenger in blue dashed past her
and up the few steps that led to the entrance and disappeared. Several pedestrians out of the
hurrying throng which filled the sidewalks passed about her as she paused, hesitating. She looked
helplessly around, and then, seeing herself observed, retreated. It was too difficult a task. She
could not go past them.
     (2) So severe a defeat told sadly upon her nerves. Her feet carried her mechanically forward,
every foot of her progress being a satisfactory portion of a flight which she gladly made. Block
after block passed by. Upon streetlamps at the various corners she read names such as Madison,
Monroe, La Salle, Clark, Dearborn, State, and still she went, her feet beginning to tire upon the
broad stone flagging. She was pleased in part that the streets were bright and clean. The morning
sun, shining down with steadily increasing warmth, made the shady side of the streets pleasantly
cool. She looked at the blue sky overhead with more realization of its charm than had ever come
to her before.
     (3) Her cowardice began to trouble her in a way. She turned back, resolving to hunt up Storm
and King and enter. On the way, she encountered a great wholesale shoe company, through the
broad plate windows of which she saw an enclosed executive department, hidden by frosted glass.
Without this enclosure, but just within the street entrance, sat a grey-haired gentleman at a small
table, with a large open ledger before him. She walked by this institution several times hesitating,
but, finding herself unobserved, faltered past the screen door and stood humble waiting.
     (4) "Well, young lady," observed the old gentleman, looking at her somewhat kindly, "what is
it you wish?"
     (5) "I am, that is, do you—I mean, do you need any help?" she stammered.
     (6) "Not just at present," he answered smiling. "Not just at present. Come in sometime next
week. Occasionally we need someone."
     (7) She received the answer in silence and backed awkwardly out. The pleasant nature of her
reception rather astonished her. She had expected that it would be more difficult, that something
cold and harsh would be said—she knew not what. That she had not been put to shame and made
to feel her unfortunate position, seemed remarkable.

                                                9 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


     (8) Somewhat encouraged, she ventured into another large structure. It was a clothing
company, and more people were in evidence— well-dressed men of forty and more, surrounded
by brass railings.
     (9) An office boy approached her.
     (10) "Who is it you wish to see?" he asked.
     (11) "I want to see the manager," she returned.
     (12) He ran away and spoke to one of a group of three men who were conferring together.
One of these came towards her.
     (13) "Well?" he said coldly. The greeting drove all courage from her at once.
     (14) "Do you need any help?" she stammered.
     (15) "No," he replied abruptly, and turned upon his heel.
     (16) She went foolishly out, the office boy deferentially swinging the door for her, and gladly
sank into the obscuring crowd. It was a severe setback to her recently pleased mental state.


21. She quickened her steps because she ___.
     A. was afraid of being seen as a stranger.
     B. was in a hurry to leave the district.
     C. wanted to look like someone working there.
     D. wanted to apply at more factories that day.

22. Why didn’t she enter Storm and King the first time?
     A.   She was too timid to enter the building.
     B.   Two men stopped her at the entrance.
     C.   Several pedestrians had found her strange.
     D.   The messenger had closed the door behind him.

23. What does “every foot of her progress being a satisfactory portion of a flight which she gladly
made” mean according to the context (Para. 2)?
    A. She thought she was making progress in job search.
    B. She was glad that she was looking for a job.
    C. She found her experience satisfactory.
    D. She just wanted to leave the place.

24. Why did she feel greatly relieved (Para. 7)?
     A. She eventfully managed to enter the building.
     B. She was kindly received by the clerk.
     C. She had the courage to make an inquiry.
     D. She was promised a work position.




                                               10 / 14
                      英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


SECTION B SHORT-ANSWER QUESTIONS

In this section there are eight short answer questions based on the passages in Section A. Answer
each question in NO MORE THAN TEN WORDS in the space provided on ANWER SHEET TWO.

PASSAGE ONE

25. What do “promise” and “should” in Para. 2 imply about the author’s vision of Australia’s
economy?

26. Explain the meaning of the “the growth of national groups” according to the context (Para. 7).

PASSAGE TWO

27. Explain the meaning of “The choice between two languages is a huge prime.” according to the
context (Para. 6).

28. What reasons does the author give to explain why people feel different when speaking
different languages?

29. What does the author focus on in the passage?

PASSAGE THREE

30. Select and write down at least THREE words or phrases in Para. 1 describing the girl’s inner
feelings while walking in the streets looking for a job.

31. Explain the meaning of “So severe a defeat told sadly upon her nerve.” according to the context
(Para. 2).

32. In “It was a severe set-back to her recently pleased mental state.” (Para. 16), what does “her
recently pleased mental state” refer to according to the context?



PART III LANGUAGE USAGE [15 MIN] 10%

The passage contains TEN errors. Each indicated line contains a maximum of ONE error. In each
case only ONE word is involved. You should proofread the passage and correct it in the following
way.

For a wrong word,             underline the wrong word and write the correct on in the blank
For a missing word,           mark the position of the missing word with “^” sign and write the
                              correct on in the blank
For an unnecessary word,      cross the unnecessary word the slash “/” and out the word in the blank
                                               11 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com




     Proofread the given passage on ANSWER SHEET THREE as instructed.


           Mass media is media that is intended for large audience.
        It may take the form of broadcast media, as in case of            (1) _______
        television, and radio, or print media, as newspapers and          (2) _______
        magazines.
           Usually, mass media aims to reach a very large market,
        such as the entire population of a country. By contrast,
        local media covers a much small population and area,              (3) _______
        focusing on regional news of interest, specialty media is         (4) _______
        provided for particular demographic groups. Some local
        media outlets that cover state or provincial news may raise       (5) _______
        to prominence thanks to their investigative journalism, and
        to the clout that their particular regions have in the national
        politics.
           People often think of mass media as the news, it also          (6) _______
        includes entertainment like television shows, books, and
        films. It may also be educational in the nature, as in the        (7) _______
        instance of public broadcasting stations that provide
        educational programs to a national audience. Political
        communications including propaganda are also frequently
        distributed through the media, as were public service             (8) _______
        announcements and emergency alerts.
           When elitists may be tempted to sneer at mass media,           (9) ________
        referring to it as the “opiate of the masses”, it is a critical
        part of human societies. Understanding mass media is
        usually the key to understand a population and culture,           (10) _______
        which is why the field of media studies is so huge.




PART IV TRANSLATION [20 MIN] 15%
Translate the underlined part of the following text from Chinese into English. Write your translation
on ANSWER SHEET THREE.


     文学书籍起码是我们的内心可以达到这样的三感：善感、敏感和美感。生活不如意
时，文学书籍给我们提供了可以达到一种比现实更美好的境界——书里面的水可能比我们
现实生活中的水要清，天比我们现实中的天要蓝；现实中没有完美的爱情，但在书里面有

                                                 12 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


永恒的《梁山伯与祝英台》和《罗密欧与朱丽叶》。读书，会弥补我们现实生活中所存在
的不堪和粗糙。


PART V WRITING [45 MIN] 20%

     The following are two excerpts about perfection. Read the two excerpts carefully and write an
article of NO LESS THAN 300 WORDS, in which you should:

     1. summarize the main ideas in the two excerpts, and then
     2. express your opinion on perfection, especially on whether aiming for perfection matters in
        whatever you do.

     You can support yourself with information from the excerpts.

     Marks will be awarded for content relevance, content sufficiency, organization and language
quality. Failure to follow the above instructions may result in a loss of marks.

   Write your article on ANSWER SHEET FOUR.


Excerpt 1
                         Headmistress tells pupils not to fret about exams


     Pupils should not worry about their exam results because no one will remember them in years
to come, the head of a leading girls’ school has said.
     Judith Carlisle, headmistress of Oxford High School, said there was no point fretting over
GCSEs because no one will ‘give a damn’ about results – and because they don’t reflect character.
     She is running a ‘Death of Little Miss Perfect’ initiative at the private school to combat
perfectionism in her students.
     ‘Perfectionism is only captured in a moment – it’s not achievable longer term,’ she said. ‘It
undermines self-esteem and then performance.
     Miss Carlisle said that students don’t always need to aim for 100 per cent, and if they do need
an A grade to attend their university of choice, it’s not necessary to get the highest A possible.
     She said: ‘It matters, but sometimes it probably won’t matter. It’s important [the girls are] not
going for things that if they don’t get it, it will destroy them. Exams aren’t who they are—it’s what
they did on that day.”
     She said: ‘There’s unhelpful perfectionism as opposed to high standards. It’s not that we’re
aiming to undermine high standards – it will actually help you achieve higher standards.


Excerpt 2
                                     The Pursuit of Perfection
                                                13 / 14
                     英语专业八级考试真题解析，@言回老师，www.tem8app.com


     The pursuit of perfection is a strategy for motivating organizations to innovate and reach levels
of improvement and performance not previously seen as possible. Leveraging the pursuit of
perfection as a strategy was developed and refined by quality leaders such as Bob Galvin and Paul
O’Neill, and it has led to success in industries including health care, telecommunications, and
manufacturing.
     Prior to serving as U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, Paul O’Neill was one of the most successful
industrial leaders of the 20th century. As CEO of Alcoa from 1987 to 1999, he proposed and
demanded a radical goal: zero work-loss incidents. No one would be hurt working at Alcoa. Alcoa
moved toward perfection, becoming the safest industrial company in the world — as well as the
most successful aluminum producer in the world.
     Paul O’Neill has developed a revolutionary kind of leadership — one that centers around the
pursuit of perfection.


                                           --THE END—


                                         扫码关注，获得更多
                                          英语专八考试指南




                                               14 / 14
