                      2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net



                     TEST FOR ENGLISH MAJORS 2021 (A)

                                        GRADE EIGHT

                                     微信公号 TEM8APP

                                                                      TIME LIMIT: 150 MIN

PART I LISTENING COMPREHENSION [25 MIN]

SECTION A MINI-LECTURE

In this section, you will hear a mini-lecture. You will hear the lecture ONCE ONLY. While listening,
please complete the gap-fulling task on ANSWER SHEET ONE and write NO MORE THAN
THREE WORDS for each gap. Make sure the word(s) you fill in is (are) both grammatically and
semantically acceptable. You may use the blank sheet for note taking.
You have THIRTY seconds to preview the gap-filling task.
Now listen to the mini-lecture. When it is over, you will be given THREE minutes to check your work.


                     Current Challenges Confronting U.S. Higher Education


 The first Challenge: force of the marketplace


 l    Current situation:
 -   Presence of the marketplace as (1) ____ extremal force                        (1) ________
 -   Government support: (2) ____                                                  (2) ________
 -   Public institution asking for less government (3) ____                        (3) ________
     e.g., new legislation to provide (4) ____                                     (4) ________
 l    Results:
 -   Higher institutional priorities given to (5) ____                             (5) ________
     because of their (6) ____                                                     (6) ________
 -   Ways to generate more money for institutions
        - creating new programs, e.g., (7) ____                                    (7) ________
        - adding new units focusing on generating (8) ____                         (8) ________
        - building (9) ____                                                        (9) ________
 -    Implications
       - increasing focus on (10) ____ in academic research                        (10) _______
       - higher tuition fees for students
 University administrators have to respond to the marketplace.


                                                 1 / 14
                     2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net




 The second challenge: equality in (11) ____                                     (11) _______
 l    Post War massification of U. S. higher education:
 -   (12) ____                                                                   (12) _______
 l    Reasons:
 -   Low (13) ____ of racial and ethnic minorities                               (13) _______
 -   Inability of low-income individuals to (14) ____                            (14) _______
 l    Government role:
 -   Mediating the negative effects of competition in order to (15) ____         (15) _______




SECTION B INTERVIEW

In this section, you will hear ONE interview. The interview will be divided into TWO parts. At the
end of each part, five questions will be asked about what was said. Both the interview and the
questions will be spoken ONCE ONLY. After each question, there will be a ten-second pause. During
the pause, you should read the four choices of A, B, C and D, and mark the best answer to each
question on ANWER SHEET TWO.
     You have THIRTY seconds to preview the questions.
     Now listen to Part One of the interview.


1.   A.   A publisher.
     B.   A broadcaster.
     C.   An anchorwoman.
     D.   An academic.

2.   A.   During her childhood.
     B.   During elementary school.
     C.   During high school.
     D.   During nursery.

3.   A.   Historians.
     B.   Writers and poets.
     C.   Professor of music.
     D.   Professor of English.

4.   A.   The environment.
     B.   Academic work.
     C.   Commercialization.
     D.   Local history.

                                                2 / 14
                      2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


5.   A.   To help students to better remember poems.
     B.   To facilitate the process of composing poems.
     C.   To activate one’s inner ear automatically.
     D.   To better appreciate the poems.

Now, listen to Part Two of the interview. Questions 6 to 10 are based on Part Two of the interview.

6.   A.   Continuity between writing and social life was a gift.
     B.   Link between writing and social life was necessary.
     C.   She preferred to stay away from other poets.
     D.   She thought socializing experience helped a lot.

7.   A.   Its members could be anyone.
     B.   Its members had to be poets.
     C.   It should be professional.
     D.   It had a networking role.

8.   A.   To express stronger emotions.
     B.   To allow for flexibility in expression.
     C.   To avoid readers’ misunderstanding.
     D.   To signal the end of a section.

9.   A.   It was innovative.
     B.   It was emotional.
     C.   It was different.
     D.   It was ordinary.

10. A.    Maureen’s teaching and writing experience.
    B.    Maureen’s experience as student and poet.
    C.    Maureen’s views on socializing for poets.
    D.    Maureen’s works of criticism and poems.

PART II READING COMPREHENSION [45 MIN] 30%

SECTION A MULTIPLE-CHOICE QUESTIONS


In this section there are several passages followed by fourteen multiple-choice questions. For each
question, there are four suggested answers marked A, B, C and D. Choose the one that you think is
the best answer and mark your answers on ANSWER SHEET TWO.


PASSAGE ONE
     (1) The gorilla is something of a paradox on the African scene. One thinks one knows him very
well. For a hundred years or more he has been killed, captured and imprisoned in zoos. His bones

                                                3 / 14
                      2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


have been mounted in natural history museums everywhere, and he has always exerted a strong
fascination upon scientists and romantics alike. He is the stereotyped monster of horror films and
adventure books, and an obvious (though not perhaps strictly scientific) link with our ancestral past.
    (2) Yet the fact is we know very little about gorillas. No really satisfactory photograph has ever
been taken of one in a wild state; no zoologist, however intrepid, has been able to keep the animal
under close and constant observation in the dark jungles in which it lives. Carl Akeley, the American
naturalist, led two expeditions to Uganda in the 1920s and now lies buried there among the animals
he loved so well; but even he was unable to discover how long the gorilla lives, or how or why it
dies, nor was he able to define the exact social pattern of the family groups, or indicate the final
extent of their intelligence. All this and many other things remain almost as much a mystery as they
were when the French explorer Du Chaillu first described the animal to the civilized world a century
ago. The Abominable Snowman who haunts the imagination of climbers in the Himalayas is hardly
more elusive.
    (3) The little that is known about gorillas certainly makes you want to know more. Sir Julian
Huxley has recorded that thrice in the London Zoo he saw an eighteen-month-old specimen trace
the outline of its own shadow with its finger. “No similar artistic initiative,” he writes, “has been
recorded for any other anthropoid (类人猿)，though we all know now that young chimpanzees will
paint 'pictures' if provided with the necessary materials.” Huxley speaks too of a traveler seeing a
male gorilla help a female up a steep rock-step, and gallantry of that kind is certainly not normal
among animals. It is this “human-ness” of the gorilla that is so beguiling. According to some
observers he courts and makes love the same way as humans do. Once the family is established it
clings together. It feeds in a group in the thick bamboo jungles on the mountainside in the daytime,
each animal making a tidy pile of its food—wild celery, bamboo shoots, and other leaves - and
squatting down to eat it; and by night each member of the family makes its own bed by bending
over and interlacing. the bamboo fronds so as to form a kind of oval-shaped nest which is as
comfortable and springy as a mattress. The father tends to make his bed just a foot or two from the
ground, the mother a little higher, and the children are safely lodged in the branches up above.
    (4) When he walks the gorilla takes the main weight on his short legs and rests lightly on the
knuckles of his hands at the end of his very long arms. When he stands upright a full-grown male
rises to six feet, but with that immense chest he is far heavier than any normal man could ever be.
Six hundred pounds is not uncommon. His strength is incredible —certainly great enough to take a
man in his arms and wrench his head off.
    (5) Gorillas appear to talk to one another in high-pitched voices, not unlike those of women, or
by smacking their lips or striking their cheeks, and the female, if alarmed, will scream. The male is
capable of making a frightening demonstration in the face of danger. He stays behind while his
family gets away, rising to his feet and uttering a terrifying roar. Sometimes he will drum on his
chest and shake the trees around him with every appearance of uncontrollable fury. In extremity he
will charge.
    (6) But all this is no more than shadow boxing as a general rule, for the gorilla is a gentle,
                                                4 / 14
                        2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


kindly creature, a most forgiving ape who lives at peace with all the other animals, and his reputation
for savagery and belligerence is nothing but a myth. When the animal charges, the thing to do is to
stand your ground and look him in the eye. Then he will turn aside and slip away through the
undergrowth.


11. Which of the following facts about gorillas does mankind know?
      A. Lifespan.
      B. Causes of death.
      C. Family structure.
      D. Bone structure.


12. Which of the following words is closer to the meaning of “mystery” in Para. 2?
      A. Myth.
      B. Elusive.
      C. Horror.
      D. Stereotyped.


13. What does the author mean by saying “But all this is no more than shadow boxing, ...." (Para.
6)?
      A. When facing danger, gorillas seldom intend to attack others.
      B. When gorillas get into fury, they usually attack others.
      C. When the family is in danger, the male gorilla protects them.
      D. When alarmed, the male gorilla is more likely to show fury.


14. We can learn from the passage that the author's attitude towards gorillas is ____.
      A. ambiguous
      B. hostile
      C. sympathetic
      D. nonchalant


PASSAGE TWO
      (1) In the town there were two mutes, and they were always together. Early every morning they
would come out from the house where they lived and walk arm in arm down the street to work. The
one who always steered the way was an obese and dreamy Greek. In the summer he would come
out wearing a yellow or green polo shirt stuffed sloppily into his trousers in front and hanging loose
behind. When it was colder, he wore over this a shapeless gray sweater. His face was round and oily,
with half-closed eyelids and lips that curved in a gentle, stupid smile. The other mute was tall. His
eyes had a quick, intelligent expression. He was always immaculate and very soberly dressed. Every
morning the two friends walked silently together until they reached the main street of the town.
                                                 5 / 14
                      2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


Then when they came to a certain fruit and candy store, they paused for a moment on the sidewalk
outside. The Greek, Spiros Antonapoulos, worked for his cousin, who owned this fruit store. His
job was to make candies and sweets, uncrate the fruits, and keep the place clean. The thin mute,
John Singer, nearly always put his hand on his friend's arm and looked for a second into his face
before leaving him. Then after this goodbye Singer crossed the street and walked on alone to the
jewelry store where he worked as a silverware engraver. In the late afternoon the friends would meet
again. Singer came back to the fruit store and waited until Antonapoulos was ready to go home. The
Greek would be lazily unpacking a case of peaches or melons, or perhaps looking at the funny paper
in the kitchen behind the store where he cooked. Before their departure Antonapoulos always opened
a paper sack he kept hidden during the day on one of the kitchen shelves. Inside were stored various
bits of food he had collected—a piece of fruit or samples of candy. Usually before leaving
Antonapoulos waddled gently to the glassed case in the front of the store where some meats and
cheeses were kept. He glided open the back of the case and his fat hand groped lovingly for some
particular dainty inside which he had wanted. Sometimes his cousin who owned the place did not
see him. But if he noticed he stared at his cousin with a warming in his tight, pale face. Sadly,
Antonapoulos would shuffle the morsel from one corner of the case to the other. During these
times Singer stood very straight with his hands in his pockets and looked in another direction. He
did not like to watch this little scene between the two Greeks. For, except drinking and a certain
solitary secret pleasure, Antonapoulos loved to eat more than anything else in the world.
    (2) In the dusk the two mutes walked slowly home together. At home Singer was always talking
to Antonopoulos. His hands shaped the words in a swift series of designs. His face was eager and
his gray-green eyes sparkled brightly. With his thin, strong hands he told Antonapoulos all that had
happened during the day.
    (3) When back at home, Antonapoulos sat back lazily and looked at Singer. It was seldom that
he ever moved his hands to speak at all—and then it was to say that he wanted to eat or to sleep or
to drink. These three things he always said with the same vague, fumbling signs. At night, if he were
not too drunk, he would kneel down before his bed and pray awhile. Then his plump hands shaped
the words Holy Jesus, or God, or Darling Mary. These were the only words Antonapoulos ever said.
Singer never knew just how much his friend understood of all the things he told him. But it did not
matter.
    (4) They shared the upstairs of a small house near the business section of the town. There were
two rooms. On the oil stove in the kitchen Antonapoulos cooked all of their meals. There were
straight, plain kitchen chairs for Singer and an overstuffed sofa for Antonapoulos. The bedroom was
furnished mainly with a large double bed covered with an eiderdown comforter for the big Greek
and a narrow iron cot for Singer.
    (5) Dinner always took a long time, because Antonapoulos loved food and he was very slow.
After they had eaten, the big Greek would lie back on his sofa and slowly lick over each one of his
teeth with his tongue, either from a certain delicacy or because he did not wish to lose the savor of
the meal-while Singer washed the dishes.
                                                6 / 14
                      2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


    (6) Sometimes in the evening the mutes would play chess. Singer had always greatly enjoyed
this game, and years before he had tried to teach it to Antonapoulos. At first his friend could not be
interested in the reasons for moving the various pieces about on the board. Then Singer began to
keep a bottle of something good under the table to be taken out after each lesson. The Greek never
got on to the erratic movements of the knights and the sweeping mobility of the queens, but he
learned to make a few set, opening moves. He preferred the white pieces and would not play if the
black men were given him. After the first moves Singer worked out the game by himself while his
friend looked on drowsily. If Singer made brilliant attacks on his own men so that in the end the
black king was killed, Antonapoulos was always very proud and pleased.
    (7) The two mutes had no other friends, and except when they worked, they were alone together.
Each day was very much like any other day, because they were alone so much that nothing ever
disturbed them. Once a week they would go to the library for Singer to withdraw a mystery book
and on Friday night they attended a movie. Then on payday they always went to the ten-cent
photograph shop above the Army and Navy Store so that Antonapoulos could have his picture taken.
These were the only places where they made customary visits. There were many parts in the town
that they had never even seen. The town was in the middle of the deep South. The summers were
long and the months of winter cold were very few. Nearly always the sky was a glassy, brilliant
azure and the sun burned down riotously bright. Then the light, chill rains of November would come,
and perhaps later there would be frost and some short months of cold. The winters were changeable,
but the summers always were burning hot. The town was a fairly large one. On the main street there
were several blocks of two- and three-story shops and business offices. But the largest buildings in
the town were the factories, which employed a large percentage of the population. These cotton
mills were big and flourishing and most of the workers in the town were very poor. Often in the
faces along the streets there was the desperate look of hunger and of loneliness. But the two mutes
were not lonely at all. At home they were content to eat and drink, and Singer would talk with his
hands eagerly to his friend about all that was in his mind. So, the years passed in this quiet way until
Singer reached the age of thirty-two and had been in the town with Antonapoulos for ten years.


15. Which of the following pairs of words does NOT indicate contrast?
    A. “yellow or green” and “soberly dressed” (Para. 1).
    B. “burning hot” and “a glassy, brilliant azure” (Para. 7).
    C. “gentle, stupid smile” and “quick, intelligent expression" (Para. 1).
    D. “straight, plain kitchen chairs” and “an overstuffed sofa” (Para. 4).


16. From the passage we know that Singer seems to ____.
    A. like to play chess less
    B. like to eat more things
    C. be more sympathetic
    D. be more “talkative”
                                                 7 / 14
                      2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


17. We learn from the narration in Para. 6 that _____.
    A. Singer usually had to finish a game of chess by himself
    B. both were interested in playing chess in the evening
    C. Antonapoulos was quick in learning how to play chess
    D. Antonapoulos was pleased when white pieces-were attacked


18. Which of the following groups of words BEST sums up the message in Para. 7?
    A. Booming business and poverty-stricken population.
    B. After-work leisure and desperate attempt for survival.
    C. Self-contentment and omnipresent desperation.
    D. Changeable short winter and hot long summer.




PASSAGE THREE
     (1) Like many historical films, Amadeus is far from a faithful account of what is known about
the period and the people that it portrays. Events are exaggerated, condensed and simplified, and
the complexity of real characters is reduced to suit the needs of a dramatic contrast between good
and evil. Such historical liberties are often bemoaned by experts, but few have seemed to mind the
wayward story points of Amadeus. This is no doubt partly attributable to the film's high
entertainment value: it is an unusually lively and funny historical film. It revels in the boyish humor
and high spirits of its main character, the composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756-1791), played
with jubilant gusto by Tom Hulce. But the film's appeal is also attributable to Mozart's music. The
composer's vulgar hijinks (狂欢作乐) serve as a contrast to the transcendent beauty of his music,
beautifully performed on the soundtrack by the Academy of St Martin in the Fields. Thus, even the
most stringent historical purists couldn't help but find something to enjoy in Amadeus.
     (2) For all its liberties, the story is actually based on a real rumor that circulated in Vienna in
the 1820s. While gravely ill, the rival composer Antonio Salieri (1750-1825) confessed he had
murdered Mozart decades earlier by poisoning him. Salieri was suffering from dementia (痴呆) at
the time of this confession, and he later withdrew it, but some—including Mozart's widow
Constanze—chose to believe the claim. More than 150 years later, the English playwright Peter
Shaffer based the story of Amadeus not just on Salieri's confession but also the idea that Salieri had
suffered from a deep and bitter jealousy of Mozart throughout the ten years that they both lived and
worked as composers in Vienna. In the fun-loving Mozart, the story goes, Salieri saw a true genius
—one who made his own talent and accomplishments appear mediocre—and this drove him on a
vendetta (宿怨) that ultimately culminated in murder.
     (3) Shaffer's story makes for great drama, but it is, of course, biased against Salieri. In fact,
at the time, Salieri was regarded as the more accomplished musician and composer. From the 1770s
through the 1790s, he composed dozens of operas, many of them proving popular and considered
innovative. A mark of his prominence was his appointment to the influential post of Kapellmeister,
                                                 8 / 14
                      2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


or musical director, to the court of Holy Roman Emperor Joseph II. Salieri was also a teacher whose
pupils included Ludwig Van Beethoven, Franz Liszt and Franz Schubert. In his private life, he may
not have had Mozart's exuberance but nor was he the lonely and celibate man played with such
convincing severity by F. Murray Abraham in Amadeus. Salieri was married at the time he knew
Mozart, and he fathered no fewer than eight children.
     (4) If Salieri had little reason to fear or resent Mozart's success, there was naturally a degree of
rivalry between two men working in the same profession and in the same city. Salieri (born near
Verona) and Mozart (born in Salzburg) belonged to separate musical groups, and Italian and German
opera fell into and out of favor during this period. The composers were therefore vying for work,
including the prestigious post of musical tutor to the Princess of Württemberg, which Salieri
successfully attained. As composers, they saw their operas' debut side by side, yet there is little
evidence of any animosity between them. Mozart did complain in a letter to his father that Joseph
II favored Salieri over all other composers, but that observation was an accurate one. Both Mozart
and his father suspected that, behind the scenes, Salieri tried to undermine Mozart's success, but
these were hardly unusual suspicions in a field so reliant on patronage. In public, fellow composers
reported that Mozart and Salieri were friendly with another. Shortly after the premiere of Mozart's
The Magic Flute, Salieri attended a performance with Mozart, and applauded warmly and vigorously.
Thus, any ill feeling between Mozart and Salieri was borne by the former rather than the latter—
contrary to what is strongly depicted in Amadeus—and it stemmed from Salieri's status and success
rather than his perceived mediocrity.
     (5) Mozart's resentments were those of a younger man struggling for position in the world.
Although he had talent, he spent many years struggling to find a suitable post or patronage. He and
his father travelled widely during his youth, seeking a distinguished appointment but finding mainly
low pay and occasionally humiliating circumstances. It was in the period after 1781, when Mozart
defied his father and decided to live and work independently in Vienna that his career flourished. In
the space of ten years, he found great success with the operas The Abduction from Seraglio (1782),
The Marriage of Figaro (1786), Don Giovanni (1787) and The Magic Flute (1791). These were
composed alongside his piano concertos, symphonies and chamber music, and together with his
work as a performer and teacher, his success brought a high income. Mozart's money troubles were
the result of excessive spending, and his volatile temperament, rather than any malicious schemes
against him. His death, at the age of 35, was not considered suspicious at the time as he had been ill
for weeks with a fever. While it is true that he had a commoner's funeral, in 18th-century Vienna
this was not unusual for a man of non-aristocratic standing, It. certainly was not a mark of his
downfall or ignominy, as implied by the film. At his death, Mozart, was second in stature only to
Salieri as Vienna's most prominent musician and composer.
     (6) The drama of Amadeus stems not from historical accuracies, but from our contemporary
knowledge that Mozart's music and reputation have survived for centuries — and continued to find
new, zesty audiences—while Salieri's name and work quickly faded. Mozart's secondary status
during his own lifetime thus appears unjust and unwarranted, and he is invested with the role of the
                                                 9 / 14
                       2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


struggling artist and unappreciated genius. This may be shaky history, but the film has enough
laughter, conflict, romance and tragedy to please any opera lover, except perhaps for Salieri himself,
who undoubtedly would have told the tale in an altogether different key.


19. According to the author, Amadeus's appeal comes from the following EXCEPT _____.
     A. depiction of Mozart's character
     B. a storyline true to history
     C. actors' excellent performance
     D. Mozart's music in the film


20. According to the author, which of the following is INCORRECT about the real Salieri?
     A. He remained single throughout his life.
     B. Some of his pupils later became famous.
     C. He was a talented musician and composer.
     D. He was once assigned to an important post.


21. There was some rivalry between Mozart and Salieri mainly because they _____.
     A. lived in the same city
     B. joined different musical groups
     C. competed for musical work and post
     D. suspected each other on some occasions


22. What does the author think of the cause of ill feeling between the two men (Para. 4)?
     A. Mozart's experience of breaking up with his father.
     B. Salieri's attempt to undermine Mozart's success.
     C. Mozart's success and status as a musical talent.
     D. Salieri's success and status in the musical circle.


23. Which of the following statements BEST supports “… the complexity of real characters is
reduced to suit the needs of a dramatic contrast between good and evil” (Para. 1)?
     A. It certainly was not a mark of his downfall or ignominy, .... (Para. 5).
     B. For all its liberties, the story is actually based on a real rumor. (Para. 2).
     C. Mozart's secondary status during his own lifetime thus appears unjust.... (Para. 6).
     D. In his private life, he may not have had Mozart's exuberance... (Para. 3).


24. Throughout the passage, the author attempts mainly to _____.
     A. examine how the film appeals to modern audience
     B. correct some distorted personal details in the film
     C. highlight the entertainment value of the film Amadeus
                                                  10 / 14
                       2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


D. provide an account of Mozart as a talented musician


SECTION B SHORT ANSWER QUESTIONS
In this section there are eight short questions based on the passages in Section A. answer each
question in NO MORE THAN TEN WORDS in the space provided on ANSWER SHEET TWO.


PASSAGE ONE
25. Why does the author call the gorilla “a paradox"(Para. 1)?
26. Mention TWO characteristics of gorillas which resemble those of humans.


PASSAGE TWO
27. Mention at least TWO differences between the mutes (Para. 1).
28. What does “Sadly, Antonapoulos would shuffle the morsel from one corner of the case to the
other” tell us (Para. 1)?
29. How did the two mutes share cooking and washing?


PASSAGE THREE
30. What does “such historical liberties” refer to according to the context (Para. 1)?
31. Why does the author say that “Shaffer’s story makes for great drama” (Para. 3)?
32. What does the author imply by saying “who undoubtedly would have told the tale in an
altogether different key” (Para. 6)?


PART III LANGUAGE USAGE [15 MIN] 10%

The passage contains TEN errors. Each indicated line contains a maximum of ONE error. In each
case only ONE word is involved. You should proofread the passage and correct it in the following
way.


For a wrong word,              underline the wrong word and write the correct on in the blank
For a missing word,            mark the position of the missing word with “^” sign and write the
                               correct on in the blank
For an unnecessary word,       cross the unnecessary word the slash “/” and out the word in the blank


       Proofread the given passage on ANSWER SHEET THREE as instructed.


       Most of us have an image of a standard English in pronunciation, and

 very commonly in Great Britain this is “Received Pronunciation”, often



                                                 11 / 14
                      2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


 associated with the public schools and the BBC. Indeed, a pronunciation

 within this range has great prestige throughout the world, and for English

 taught as a foreign language it is usually ideal than any other                (1) ______

 pronunciation. At the same time, it must be remembered that, as far as the

 English-speaking countries are concerned, this “Received Pronunciation”

 becomes the status of a “standard” almost only in England.                     (2) ______

   Even in England it is difficult to speak about standard in pronunciation.    (3) ______

 For one thing, pronunciation is infinitely variable, so that even giving the   (4) ______

 will to adopt a single pronunciation, it would be difficult to achieve. The

 word dance will be pronounced in a dozen ways even by people who do            (5) ______

 not think of themselves as dialect speakers: there is no a sure way of any     (6) ______

 two people saying the same word with precisely the same sound. In this

 respect, pronunciation much more closely resembles handwriting than

 spelling. In spelling, there are absolute distinctions which can be learnt

 and imitated with completely precision: one can know at once whether a         (7) ______

 word is spelt in a ‘standard ’way or not. But two persons’ handwriting and

 pronunciation may both be perfectly intelligent, yet have obvious              (8) ______

 differences without being able to say which is ‘better’ or more ‘standard.’    (9) ______

      Moreover, with the easy and quick communications of modern times,

 and encouraging the spread of a ‘neutral’, ‘normal’ pronunciation, the

 accompanied sociological changes have reduced the prestige of Received         (10) ______

 Pronunciation.


PART IV TRANSLATION [20 MIN] 15%
    Translate the underlined part of the following text from Chinese into English. Write your
translation on ANSWER SHEET THREE.


    你的青春就是一场远行，一场离自己的童年，离自己的少年，越来越远的远行。你会发
现这个世界跟你想象的一点都不一样，你甚至会觉得很孤独，你会受到很多的排挤。度假和
旅行，其实都解决不了这些问题，我解决问题的办法，就是不停寻找自己所热爱的一切。




                                                  12 / 14
                      2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


PART V WRITING [45 MIN] 20%

     Read carefully the following two excerpts on private tutoring, and then write your response in
NO LESS THAN 300 WORDS, in which you should:


     1. summarize the main messages in the two excerpts, and then
     2. express your opinion on the issue, especially on whether private tutoring should be
         promoted or prohibited.
     You can support yourself with information from the excerpts.
     Marks will be awarded for content relevance, content sufficiency, organization and language
quality. Failure to follow the above instructions may result in a loss of marks.


   Write your article on ANSWER SHEET FOUR.


Excerpt 1
                                    Why Tutoring is Important
Not every child learns the same way. Some children learn faster than others. Luckily, for any student
who falls a little bit behind or has trouble in a particular subject there is tutoring available to help
them. Some parents believe their child does not need tutoring help. but many other may prefer
instead to have their child receive some extra help after class.
     In our educational center, we believe that tutoring is very important in the world of academics.
Honestly, there is certainly no shame that your child may need a tutor. No matter what subject your
child needs help in, we can design a tailored program that suits your child’s needs. Whether it is
Math, English, Reading, or Study Skills, there is always a tutor available to help you and your child.
Among the most popular requested tutors are math tutors. Although your child may not be a math
whiz, we firmly believe every child has the greatest capacity to excel in any subject if given the
right preparation and tutoring.
     Frequently there are times that a child starts to learn something new in school, only to get
frustrated that they are having difficulty in understanding the basic concepts. If they do not learn the
fundamental concepts well, it will only cause the child more difficulty when trying to complete
homework assignments and ultimately trouble scoring well on exams.
     We understand your frustrations, and many of our instructors, tutors, and staff are parents just
like you. When your child receives tutoring here in our center, you can rest assured they are
receiving the highest quality of tutoring and instruction from a certificated professional. Each
student masters the material since they are taught key concepts in a systematic way.
     Our teachers are guided instructors who provide students with specific tasks which lead to
discoveries and deeper understanding.



                                                13 / 14
                      2021 英语专业八级考试真题解析 @言回老师 www.tem8.net


Excerpt 2
                                   Private Home Tuition Illegal
The Supreme Education Council (SEC) is to launch a crackdown against private tuition from the
second semester of the current academic year.
     According to the local daily, the campaign will prohibit private lessons and the promotion of
the “phenomenon” with heavy penalties for people who would violate the rules.
     The daily, quoting Mr. Muhammadi, head of the Communication Office at the SEC, said the
penalties for offenders could be imprisonment up to six months and heavy fines or both.
     Officers of the SEC will have the judicial authority to deal with any offence in this regard.
     Mr. Muhammadi said the measures are being taken to implement the new law, which was
issued last September. He urged publishing houses and advertisement platforms to participate in the
campaign by refusing to release any material that promotes and encourages private tuition.
     According to the new law, the SEC has the authority to approve educational centers and issue
sanctions against those who practice without permission. “Unauthorized private tutors will be
targeted in the first phase of the drive,” Mr. Muhammadi said.
     To curb the “unhealthy” practice, awareness campaigns through different media will be run to
inform the residents about the new law, he said. The council has already started adding lessons and
explanations on the SEC website so that students can study without the help of tutors.
     In addition, special classes will be conducted at the schools for students who need help in some
of the subjects. The official urged pupils to focus on their teachers in classes instead of depending
on private tutors, a phenomenon which, he said, could have a negative impact on children.


                                           --THE END--




                                                14 / 14
