                   2024 年 12 月大学英语四级考试真题（第 2 套）

    Part I                                            Writing                                              (30 minutes)
    Directions: Suppose the university newspaper is inviting submissions from the students for its coming edition on
    how to enrich students’ knowledge of traditional Chinese culture. You are now to write an essay for submission.
    You will have 30 minutes to write the essay. You should write at least 120 words but no more than 180 words.


    Part II                                   Listening Comprehension                                      (25 minutes)
    Section A
    Directions: In this section, you will hear three news reports. At the end of each news report, you will hear two or
    three questions. Both the news report and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you
    must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter
    on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
    Questions 1 and 2 are based on the news report you have just heard.
    1. A. They will see a 27% higher price to buy natural gas.
       B. They will have insufficient heating oil to keep warm.
       C. They will have a costly bill to pay to heat their homes.
       D. They will experience the coldest winter in four decades.
    2. A. Provided additional funding to Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program.
       B. Assured U.S. citizens of an increase in energy supplies by the end of this year.
       C. Predicted a 10% jump in heating bills for most U.S. households this winter.
       D. Decided on this year’s energy assistance package of $8 billion in total.
    Questions 3 and 4 are based on the news report you have just heard.
    3. A. They care less about their diet now than before.
       B. They may lack adequate knowledge of healthy food.
       C. They may hold too optimistic a view about their diet.
       D. They pay insufficient attention to their choice of food.
    4. A. Those who finished 24-hour food questionnaires.
       B. Those who fully understood the rating scale.
       C. Those who cared about food quality.
       D. Those who rated their diet as poor.
    Questions 5 to 7 are based on the news report you have just heard.
    5. A. They experienced a heartbreaking moment.
       B. They gathered together to rescue an elephant.
       C. They heard a noise from the bottom of a well.
       D. They found an elephant wandering around a well.
    6. A. To borrow their crane.                                     C. To report the strange noise.
       B. To ask them for help.                                      D. To get food for the elephant.
    7. A. The elephant was able to return to the jungle.
       B. The army officers were examined for injuries.
       C. The army officers were rewarded for their rescue efforts.


1                                                                                          https://zhenti.burningvocabulary.cn
       D. The elephant was given medical treatment for many days.

    Section B
    Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each conversation, you will hear
    four questions. Both the conversation and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you
    must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter
    on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
    Questions 8 to 11 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
    8. A. He found it had caused him much inconvenience.
       B. It led him to spend more money than necessary.
       C. It was much less secure than paying with cash.
       D. He wanted to be less dependent on his phone.
    9. A. Living beyond her means.                                   C. Fashion addiction.
       B. Lack of budgeting strategies.                              D. Impulse purchasing.
    10. A. Eat healthier food with less money.                       C. Avoid getting addicted to junk food.
       B. Order food like burgers and chips.                         D. Pay either in cash or with his phone.
    11. A. Making a shopping list.                                   C. Withdrawing cash only once a month.
       B. Sticking to his budget.                                    D. Thinking twice before buying something.
    Questions 12 to 15 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
    12. A. He does not enjoy any ball games.                         C. He has breathing problems.
       B. He has to prepare for the future.                          D. He is not up to anything challenging.
    13. A. Soccer.                    B. Badminton.                  C. Volleyball.                  D. Basketball.
    14. A. The possibilities of joining the school sports team.
       B. The opportunities of winning some championships.
       C. The chances of getting an athletic scholarship later on.
       D. The odds of becoming a professional sportsman someday.
    15. A. It differs entirely from indoor volleyball.
       B. It appeals to both schoolgirls and schoolboys.
       C. It is less popular than indoor sports in the country.
       D. It is completely different from other outdoor games.

    Section C
    Directions: In this section, you will hear three passages. At the end of each passage, you will hear three or four
    questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must
    choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on
    Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
    Questions 16 to 18 are based on the passage you have just heard.
    16. A. It usually requires years of preparations.
       B. It does a lot of harm to the environment.
       C. It often burns over three hundred tonnes of refined fuel.
       D. It proves to be the most complicated stage of space missions.
    17. A. They are burnt up in outer space.                         C. They are reused up to 100 times.
       B. They are guided back to Earth.                             D. They are treated as expendable.
    18. A. New technologies for bringing back space vehicles for recycling.
2                                                                                            https://zhenti.burningvocabulary.cn
       B. The technology for meeting the needs of commercial space travel.
       C. Many of the technologies to limit the impact of space travel on Earth.
       D. The technology for effectively protecting ozone from being destroyed.
    Questions 19 to 21 are based on the passage you have just heard.
    19. A. It can help unskilled readers feel more secure.
       B. It can encourage reluctant readers to read aloud.
       C. It can strengthen children’s confidence in others.
       D. It can boost children’s interest in communication.
    20. A. By motivating children to find out about their favourite pets.
       B. By taking children to the library to borrow books on animals.
       C. By allowing children to surf the internet about pets by themselves.
       D. By showing children how to acquire knowledge about healthy pets.
    21. A. By learning that raising pets can do much good.
       B. By watching how healthy pets are brought up.
       C. By hearing about their peers’ passion for pets.
       D. By visiting friends who have household pets.
    Questions 22 to 25 are based on the passage you have just heard.
    22. A. Send would-be students a packet of information.
       B. Update regularly all information on their websites.
       C. Inform prospective students of their yearly enrollment.
       D. Answer questions raised by applicants and their parents.
    23. A. Oversee private institutions directly.                  C. Supervise all schools consistently.
       B. Follow other states’ example.                            D. Regulate public institutions by law.
    24. A. They are resourceful.
       B. They are competitive.
       C. They provide the best opportunity to realize one’s dream.
       D. They appeal most to students from other states in the U.S.
    25. A. Some students waste much time surfing the net.
       B. Students may need to visit too many websites.
       C. Students have to search for the information.
       D. Some students may lack adequate access.


    Part III                                    Reading Comprehension                                   (40 minutes)
    Section A
    Directions: In this section, there is a passage with ten blanks. You are required to select one word for each blank
    from a list of choices given in a word bank following the passage. Read the passage through carefully before
    making your choices. Each choice in the bank is identified by a letter. Please mark the corresponding letter for
    each item on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre. You may not use any of the words in the bank
    more than once.
         When Toni Morrison died in 2019, the world lost one of its most influential authors. But Morrison was
    not an early success. Her first novel was not published until she was 39, and her last appeared when she was
    84. And Morrison was not       26     in this regard. Numerous writers produce masterpieces well into their 70s


3                                                                                         https://zhenti.burningvocabulary.cn
    and beyond. Such         27     accomplishments highlight an important point. Our capacity to speak, write and
    learn new vocabulary does not seem to         28        with age. Our eyesight may dim and our recall may weaken,
    but, by comparison, our ability to produce and to         29    language is well preserved into older adulthood.
          Indeed, the latest research that has emerged on language and aging shows that language mastery is a
    30      that we begin as infants and continue on for the rest of our lives. Some aspects of our language abilities,
    such as our knowledge of word meanings,            31     improve during middle and late adulthood. One study, for
    example, found that adults over sixty had an average vocabulary size of over 21,000 words. The researchers
    also studied a      32     of college students and found that their average vocabulary contained             33      16,000
    words. In another study, older adults, with an average age of 75,         34    better than participants in their youth
    or middle years on tasks that required them to determine the meaning of words. Thus, language seems to be a
    skill that, contrary to what many might      35 , does not weaken with age.
                             A. actually                F. deteriorate             K. rarely
                             B. approximately           G. equivalent              L. sample
                             C. assume                  H. journey                 M. undermined
                             D. component               I. literary                N. unique
                             E. comprehend              J. performed               O. unit

    Section B
    Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached to it. Each statement
    contains information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the paragraph from which the information is derived.
    You may choose a paragraph more than once. Each paragraph is marked with a letter. Answer the questions by
    marking the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2.
                      If we care about plastic waste, why won’t we stop drinking bottled water?
    We have all seen the damage plastic waste is doing around the world, but sales of bottled water have
    continued to grow.
    A. For all the innovation and choice that define the food and drink industries, if you want to make money,
         you could do a lot worse than fill a bottle with water and sell it. A litre of tap water, the stuff we have
         cleverly piped into our homes, costs less than half a penny. A litre of bottled water can cost well over a
         pound, especially for something fancy that has been sucked through a mountain.
    B. Yet the bottled water market is livelier than ever. It defies our increasing awareness of the harm plastics do
         to the environment and a broader, growing sense that something has to change. Sales in the UK were
         worth a record £558.4 million this past year, an increase of 7%, according to the latest figures from the
         market analyst Kantar. Separate data from other analysts show that last year the British consumed more
         than 2.2 billion litres of bottled water, including “take-home” and “on-the-go” products. That’s an annual
         rise in volume of 8.5%.
    C. Environmental campaigners are struggling to understand why nations blessed with clean tap water grow
         only fonder of the bottle. “It’s very surprising to me,” says Sam Chetan-Walsh, a political adviser at
         Greenpeace and campaigner against ocean plastic. “Public awareness has never been higher, but the
         message is not quite reaching all the people it needs to.” Where it is heard, the message is causing concern.
         Plastic water bottles require oceans of fossil fuels to make and ship. Additionally, single-use plastics of all
         types are polluting our cities and seas. Numerous documentaries have shown how plastic is ultimately
         killing wildlife.
    D. Moves against various plastics have gathered pace, from shopping bags to straws and plastic-lined coffee

4                                                                                              https://zhenti.burningvocabulary.cn
       cups. Chetan-Walsh argues that bottled water is different because the alternatives are so obvious. “If a
       product that is so nakedly unnecessary can exist, then the whole system is failing,” he says.
    E. Hope is not entirely out of reach. The rate of growth has begun to ease (sales were up 7% in the year,
       compared with 8% the previous year).
    F. But even if large numbers of people are quitting bottled water because of care for the environment, others
       are taking it up. The introduction of the “sugar tax” on juices and soda drinks has pushed more people to
       bottled water, while health awareness has boosted its desirability. Tap water consumption is growing at
       roughly the same pace (UK consumers still drink almost three times as much tap water as bottled water).
    G. So the plastic tide only creeps higher. The industry is quick to point out that all its bottles are recyclable.
       “But collection rates are, at the most generous estimates, 56%, so the actual recycling rate will be lower
       than that,” Chetan-Walsh says. And while bottles may be recyclable, very few are made of recycled plastic.
       One water bottle company launched recycled half-litre “eco” bottles alongside its standard bottles.
       Another has pledged to use only recycled plastic across its range by 2025. Chetan-Walsh believes in a ban
       on single-use bottles. Bans do exist in some places. Organisers of a famous music festival announced that
       water bottles will not be sold this summer. San Francisco has banned them from city property and events.
       Last year, the UK government set out plans to ban single-use plastic from its estate.
    H. Water bottlers, unsurprisingly, don’t support bans. But they raise concerns about health rather than profit
       margins. Last month one chief executive of a water bottling company said that bans would “result in
       greater consumption of sugary drinks, adding to all the health dangers of obesity, diabetes and tooth
       decay”. Kinvara Carey, general manager of an association of the biggest bottled water manufacturers, cites
       a survey in which people were asked what they would do if bottled water were not available. “Forty-four
       per cent would buy another drink, which is not great, 14% would go without and 4.5% said they would
       find a fountain,” she says. “The choice is important.”
    I. What if fountains were more numerous, and tap water more clearly available in cafes, restaurants and
       elsewhere? Dozens of fountains are being installed in London. There are similar initiatives elsewhere.
       Before plastic and the marketing that made people think they needed bottled water in the first place,
       fountains were an urban fixture. Greenpeace, among others, is also pushing for a “deposit return” scheme.
       This would mean tax on bottled water would be refunded to customers who returned the plastic for
       recycling.
    J. Even if bottled water sales are growing slightly more slowly, the industry is racing to adapt to changing
       concerns and tastes. Flavoured water is booming: sales of the sparkling variety shot up by 20%, according
       to the latest analyst data. Meanwhile, international water brands, as well as a range of new companies, are
       selling high-end reusable bottles. And if you must fill them with tap water, why not add flavouring?
    K. As the owner of multiple sugary drink brands and bottled water, PepsiCo is facing challenges on health
       and environmental fronts. Last year, the company bought SodaStream (a drinks company that sells
       machines for making tap water bubbly and then consumers add flavours) for $3.2 billion. It also launched
       a range of fancy bottles that work with tap water and flavour packets. The bottle is reusable. The packets?
       Not so much, and, yes, they are made of plastic, although the company invites users to post them back for
       recycling.
    L. As is so often the case, clever marketing can beat reason; awareness is rarely enough. “There is always
       this kind of slip between concern, intent and changed behaviour,” says Giles Quick, an analyst of bottled
       water. “The best example is five a day, the recommendation to have at least five portions of fruit and


5                                                                                        https://zhenti.burningvocabulary.cn
       vegetables every day. Almost everyone is aware of this, but something like 15% of us achieve it.” Unless a
       far-reaching bottle ban does come into force, it will be up to consumers to not only demand change — but
       to act themselves.
    36. Judging from the slowing rate of sales growth, there is still hope to combat bottled water.
    37. Bottled water manufacturers base their arguments against bans of plastic bottles on health concerns rather
        than on profits.
    38. Sales of bottled water in Britain hit a record high last year even though people are increasingly aware that
        plastics are environmentally unfriendly.
    39. It often happens that people can lack reason when faced with skillful marketing.
    40. One city on the west coast of America has banned single-use bottles from its property and events.
    41. Manufacturing and shipping of plastic water bottles consume a tremendous amount of fossil fuels.
    42. One large beverage company has adapted its operations when confronted with challenges from health and
        environmental advocates.
    43. Bottled water is considerably more expensive than tap water.
    44. Fountains could be seen in cities before bottled water became popular.
    45. More people have taken to bottled water because of their health awareness.

    Section C
    Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some questions or unfinished
    statements. For each of them there are four choices marked A), B), C) and D). You should decide on the best
    choice and mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre.
    Passage One
    Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following passage.
         The weakening of the human connection to nature might be good for economic growth but is bad for
    people. A tipping point was reached in 2020 when human-made materials — such as steel, concrete and
    plastic — were found to weigh more than all life on Earth. Continuing to grow concrete forests rather than
    real ones is shortsighted. Simply being in the nearest wood has such health benefits that the Woodland Trust
    successfully lobbied for it to be prescribed by doctors.
         Yet slipping from popular culture is the wonder and beauty of the natural world. For every three nature-
    related words in hit songs of the 1950s, researchers found, there was only slightly more than one 50 years
    later. It is not a moment too soon that teenagers will be able to take a natural history test, given that for
    decades children have been able to name more video game characters than wildlife species.
         Part of remedying this social disease would be for parliament to pass a “right to grow” law, allowing
    anyone to turn underused public spaces into vegetable and fruit gardens. The idea is for people to get back in
    touch with the soil — while producing food sustainably.
         Vegetable planting has a respectable tradition. In April 1649, locals responded to high prices and food
    shortages by cultivating vegetables on common land in Southern England. The practice of throwing seed
    bombs to turn vacant plots of land green took off in 1970s New York, and has been revived (使复活) by
    green-thumbed (有园艺才能的) social media influencers who defy local U.S. regulations in a war on ugly
    spots in cities.
         Apart from the urgent task of providing more healthy nutrients to those who increasingly can’t afford
    them, publicly accessible fruit and vegetable gardens connect what we eat to where it comes from — the
    means of production, if you will. They can make unlovely spaces lovely, and marry use and beauty as well as

6                                                                                       https://zhenti.burningvocabulary.cn
    help promote a sense of community. Plants are also, of course, our first defence against species loss and
    climate change. Such planting is a small step for humanity — in the right direction.
    46. What does the author want to emphasise in the first paragraph?
       A. The year 2020 was a big turning point in human history.
       B. Economic growth benefits people little in the long run.
       C. It is unwise to weaken the human connection to nature.
       D. It is harmful to mankind to use human-made materials.
    47. What did researchers find about popular culture?
       A. It is increasingly detached from the natural world.
       B. It is filled with all kinds of video game characters.
       C. It is especially appealing to the taste of teenagers.
       D. It is still impacted by the hit songs of the 1950s.
    48. What does the author propose people do?
       A. Take measures to ensure sustainable food development.
       B. Reconnect with nature through the right to grow.
       C. Stand by the parliament in fighting social diseases.
       D. Cover public spaces with fruit trees and vegetable plants.
    49. What do we learn from the passage about vegetable planting?
       A. It all started in 1649 in Southern England.
       B. It is protected by U.S. government regulations.
       C. It has long been used to increase food supply and improve urban landscape.
       D. It has been popularised worldwide with the increasing influence of social media.
    50. What can publicly accessible fruit and vegetable gardens do apart from their practical functions?
       A. Raise people’s environmental awareness.
       B. Add to the great variety of plant species.
       C. Act as the first defence against natural disasters.
       D. Enhance people’s community spirit.

    Passage Two
    Questions 51 to 55 are based on the following passage.
         Engineering in the U.S. has long been a male-dominated profession. Fifty years ago, it looked like that
    might change.
         In 1970, the percentage of women majoring in engineering was less than 1%. In 1979, that number was
    9%. Many hoped women would continue to enter the field at the same rate. But that’s not what happened.
    Today, only 21% of engineering majors are women, a number largely unchanged since 2000.
         I am a historian who, along with my colleagues, surveyed 251 women engineers who graduated from
    college in the 1970s. These pioneers reflected on the challenges they faced — and had advice for women
    entering the field today.
         One survey taker explained, “The greatest challenge for me was continuing to believe in myself, when
    all the messages I was getting were that I would never be taken seriously or promoted or given raises at the
    same rate as men, who were clearly less qualified and not as smart as I was.”
         A chemical engineer who worked in manufacturing agreed, “You have to prove yourself just because you
    are female. And you have to work twice as hard!”

7                                                                                      https://zhenti.burningvocabulary.cn
         A civil engineer said, “We are ‘women engineers.’ People don’t refer to a man as a ‘man engineer’ —
    he’s an engineer. We are constantly reminded that we don’t truly belong.” Another civil engineer stated, “On
    many levels, you’re never quite one of the group.”
         Women also talked about family caregiving responsibilities. A retired vice president from a major
    chemical company stated, “Young women engineers are on an equal footing until they have children, then
    they struggle to balance work and family — and compete with men who don’t have the same household
    responsibilities.”
         But over the years things have changed a lot. Young women engineers are more accepted mostly because
    there are just more of them.
         Many women engineers hailed the benefits of their chosen career. A program manager in manufacturing
    stated that engineering is the best degree. A mechanical engineer said, “It will give you the flexibility to do
    almost anything. It is also satisfying to see the effects of what you have done.”
    51. What does the passage say about the engineering profession in the United States?
       A. It has seen a change in attitude towards women engineers since 1979.
       B. It witnessed a significant increase in women engineers in the 1970s.
       C. It has experienced the gradual weakening of male dominance.
       D. It boasted the largest number of engineering majors in 2000.
    52. What does one survey taker say was her greatest challenge?
       A. Not to feel superior to less qualified male engineers.
       B. Not to take seriously all the messages she was getting.
       C. Not to think highly of her qualifications when promoted or given a pay raise.
       D. Not to lose self-confidence though constantly discouraged or unfairly treated.
    53. How do women engineers frequently feel according to the two civil engineers?
       A. Disqualified on many levels.                              C. Overworked by their organizations.
       B. Excluded from the group.                                  D. Looked down upon by male colleagues.
    54. What probably makes young women engineers more accepted nowadays?
       A. Their success in gaining an equal footing.                C. The change in their responsibilities.
       B. Their ability to balance work and family.                 D. The increase in their number.
    55. What can we conclude about many female engineers from the statement of a mechanical engineer?
       A. They take great pride in their chosen career.
       B. They have reaped the benefits of being flexible.
       C. They enjoy doing engineering to the best degree.
       D. They have proved capable of doing almost anything.


    Part IV                                       Translation                                           (30 minutes)
    Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to translate a passage from Chinese into English. You
    should write your answer on Answer Sheet 2.
         敦煌莫高窟 (Mogao Grottoes) 数字展示中心于 2014 年开放启用，是莫高窟保护利用工程的重要组
    成部分。展示中心采用数字技术和多媒体展示手段，使游客进入洞窟参观之前就能了解莫高窟的历史
    文化，鉴赏莫高窟的艺术经典。这将减少开放洞窟的数量，缩短游客在洞窟内的逗留时间，减轻参观对
    莫高窟造成的影响，以使这一世界文化遗产得到妥善保护、长久利用。


8                                                                                         https://zhenti.burningvocabulary.cn
